MIGRATION REGULATIONS 1994 NO. 268 

MIGRATION REGULATIONS 1994 NO. 268 
- TABLE OF PROVISIONS

1.01. Citation  
1.02. Commencement  
1.03. Interpretation  
1.04. Adoption  
1.05. Balance of family test  
1.06. References to classes of visas  
1.07. References to subclasses of visas  
1.08. Compelling need to work  
1.09. Criminal detention  
1.10. Labour market requirements  
1.11. Main business  
1.12. Member of the family unit  
1.13. Nominator  
1.14. Orphan relative  
1.15. Remaining relative  
1.16. Delegation  
1.17. Specification of matters by Gazette Notice  
1.18. Approved forms  
1.19. Occupations Requiring English List  
1.20. Sponsorship  
2.01. Classes of visas (Act, s. 31)  
2.02. Subclasses  
2.03. Criteria applicable to classes of visas  
2.04. Circumstances in which a visa may be granted (Act, s. 40)  
2.05. Conditions applicable to visas  
2.06. Non-citizens who do not require visas to travel to Australia  
2.07. Application for visa-general  
2.08. Application by newborn child  
2.09. Application taken to have been validly made (Act, s. 46 (2))  
2.10. Where application must be made  
2.11. Special provision for certain applications refused outside Australia  
2.12. Certain non-citizens whose applications refused in Australia (Act, s. 48)  
2.13. Communication with Minister  
2.14. Where written communication must be sent  
2.15. Response to invitation to give information or comments-prescribed periods  
2.16. Notification of decision on visa application  
2.17. Ways of giving evidence of a visa  
2.18. Re-evidencing of resident return visas  
2.19. Evidence of visa need not be given in certain cases  
2.20. Eligible non-citizen (Act, s. 72)  
2.21. Most beneficial bridging visas (Act, s. 68 (4) (b) (ii))  
2.22. Invalid application for substantive visa  
2.23. Further application for bridging visa (Act, s. 74)  
2.24. Eligible non-citizen in immigration detention (Act, s. 75)  
2.25. Grant of bridging visa E without application  
2.26. Prescribed qualifications and prescribed number of points  
2.27. Qualification-eligibility of spouse  
2.28. Notice of putting application aside  
2.29. Interpretation-Schedule 7  
2.30. Interpretation  
2.31. Form of certain assurances of support  
2.32. Duration of assurances of support  
2.33. Effect of assurance of support  
2.34. Earlier liabilities not affected  
2.35. Interpretation  
2.36. Form and duration of assurance of support  
2.37. Persons in respect of whom assurance of support may be given  
2.38. Liability of person giving assurance of support  
2.39. Bond (required assurances)  
2.40. Persons having a prescribed status-special purpose visas (Act, s. 33 (2) (a))  
2.41. Whether to cancel visa-incorrect information or bogus document (Act, s. 109 (1) (c))  
2.42. Notice of decision to cancel visa under s. 109  
2.43. Grounds for cancellation of visa (Act, s. 116)  
2.44. Invitation to comment-response  
2.45. Notification of decision (Act, s. 127)  
2.46. Time to respond to notice of cancellation (Act, s. 129 (1) (c))  
2.47. Notice of cancellation (Act, s. 129)  
2.48. Revocation of cancellation (Act, s. 131 (2))  
2.49. Notice of decision whether to revoke cancellation (Act, s. 132)  
3.01. Provision of information (general requirement)  
3.02. Passenger card  
3.03. Evidence of identity of arriving person etc. (Act, s. 166)  
3.04. Place and time for giving evidence (Act, s. 167)  
3.05. Allowed inhabitants of the Protected Zone (Act, s. 168 (2))  
3.06. Persons not required to comply with s. 166 of the Act (Act, s. 168 (3))  
3.07. Persons taken not to leave Australia (Act, s. 80 (c))  
3.08. Offence-failure to complete a passenger card  
3.09. Evidence of identity-domestic travel on overseas vessels  
3.10. Use of information  
3.11. Production of deportee or removee  
3.12. Offences by master of vessel  
3.13. Interpretation:  
3.14. Information about overseas passengers-inbound civilian vessel  
3.15. Medical certificate  
3.16. Information about overseas passengers-outbound civilian vessel  
3.17. Information about crew  
4.01. Interpretation  
4.02. Application for internal review  
4.03. Combined applications for internal review  
4.04. Internal review-prescribed fee and waiver  
4.05. Refund of fee for internal review  
4.06. Review officer's power to give directions  
4.07. Notification of decision of review officer  
4.08. Response to invitation to give information or comments on internal review of decision-prescribed periods  
4.09. IRT-reviewable decisions  
4.10. Time for lodgement of application for review by the Tribunal  
4.11. Giving the application to the Tribunal  
4.12. Combined applications for review by the Tribunal  
4.13. Review by the Tribunal-prescribed fee and waiver  
4.14. Refund of fee for review by Tribunal  
4.15. Tribunal's power to give directions  
4.16. Statement about decision under review  
4.17. Time limits etc. in relation to other evidence-bridging visa decisions  
4.18. Time limits etc. in relation to other evidence-decisions other than bridging visa decisions  
4.19. Summons to attend before Tribunal  
4.20. Fees for persons giving evidence  
4.21. Number of Senior Members and of members of the Tribunal (Act, s. 394)  
4.22. Prescribed allowances-section 398 of the Act  
4.23. Expedited review (close family visit visas)  
4.24. Expedited review (decision to cancel visa)  
4.25. Expedited review (certain applicants in immigration detention)  
4.26. Prescribed period for making certain decisions (Act, s. 367)  
4.27. Delegation by Secretary  
4.28. Interpretation  
4.29. Membership  
4.30. Remuneration and allowances  
4.31. Applications  
4.32. Notice of lodgment of application-person in immigration detention  
4.33. Powers of Tribunal  
4.34. Statement about decision under review-number of copies  
4.35. Time limit for providing evidence  
4.36. Duties, powers and functions of officers of Tribunal  
4.37. Fees and allowances for persons giving evidence  
4.38. Interpretation  
4.39. Address for service  
4.40. Notice of decision of Tribunal  
4.41. Service of documents  
5.01. Interpretation  
5.02. Service on a person in immigration detention  
5.03. Time of receipt of notice etc. that is sent  
5.04. Power of Commissioner to send for witnesses and documents  
5.05. Duty of witness to continue in attendance  
5.06. Arrest of witness failing to appear  
5.07. Witnesses' fees  
5.08. Power to examine on oath or affirmation  
5.09. Offences by witnesses  
5.10. Statements of person not admissible in evidence against the person  
5.11. Representation by counsel etc.  
5.12. Offences in relation to Commissioners  
5.13. Protection of Commissioners, barristers and witnesses  
5.14. Procedure of prescribed authorities  
5.15. Behaviour concern non-citizen  
5.16. Prescribed diseases-health concern non-citizen (Act, s. 5 (1))  
5.17. Prescribed evidence of English language proficiency (Act, s. 5 (2) (b))  
5.18. Prescribed laws relating to control of fishing (Act, s. 262 (b))  
5.19. Approved appointments (employer nomination)  
5.20. Prescribed penalties (Act, ss. 137, 229 and 230)  
5.21. Interpretation  
5.22. When can an infringement notice be served?  
5.23. What must an infringement notice contain?  
5.24. Can the time for payment be extended?  
5.25. What happens if the prescribed penalty is paid?  
5.26. Can an infringement notice be withdrawn?  
5.27. Refund of prescribed penalty if notice withdrawn  
5.28. Evidence  
5.29. Can there be more than one infringement notice for the same offence?  
5.30. What if payment is made by cheque?  
5.31. Infringement notice not compulsory  
5.32. Search warrants (Act, ss. 223 (14) and 251 (4))  
5.33. Document for purposes of s.274 (3) (a) of Act  
5.34. Offences  
5.35. Medical treatment of persons in detention under the Act  
5.36. Payment of fees in foreign currencies  
5.37. Employer nomination fee  
5.38. Sponsorship fee  
5.39. Refund of fees  
5.40. Fee for assessment of a person's work qualifications and experience  
SCHEDULE 1 
SCHEDULE 2 
SCHEDULE 3 
SCHEDULE 4 
SCHEDULE 5 
SCHEDULE 6 
SCHEDULE 7 
SCHEDULE 8 
SCHEDULE 9 
SCHEDULE 10 


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.01
Citation


  1.01. These Regulations may be cited as the Migration Regulations.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.02
Commencement


  1.02. These Regulations commence on 1 September 1994.


(NOTE: This Division sets out definitions that apply to the Regulations as a
whole. Elsewhere in the Regulations there may be definitions that have more
limited application. A term defined in section 5 of the Act has the same
meaning in the Regulations, in the absence of a contrary intention. An index
of all the terms defined either in section 5 or in regulation 1.03 is set out
in the list of Defined Terms at the front of the Regulations.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.03
Interpretation


  1.03. In these Regulations, unless the contrary intention appears:
  "ACCESS test" means the Australian Assessment of Communicative English
Skills test;
  "adoption" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.04;
(NOTE: "adopt" and "adopted" have corresponding meanings: see Acts
Interpretation Act 1901, section 18A.)
  "aged dependent relative", in relation to a person who is an Australian
citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen,
means a relative who:
  (a) has never married, or is widowed, divorced or formally separated from
his or her spouse; and
  (b) has been dependent on that person for a reasonable period, and remains
so dependent; and
  (c) is old enough to be granted an age pension under the Social Security Act
1991;
  "aged parent" means a parent who is old enough to be granted an age pension
under the Social Security Act 1991;
  "AIDAB" means the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
within Foreign Affairs;
  "airline crew member" means a person who:
  (a) is employed by an international air carrier as an aircrew member; and
  (b) travels to Australia in the course of his or her employment as a crew
member on an aircraft; and
  (c) who will depart Australia in the course of his or her employment as a
member of the crew of, or a passenger on, an aircraft;
  "airline positioning crew member" means a person who:
  (a) is employed by an international air carrier as an aircrew member; and
  (b) travels to Australia in the course of his or her employment as a
passenger on an aircraft; and
  (c) who will depart Australia as a member of the crew of an aircraft;
  "appropriate regional authority", in relation to a State or Territory and
applications for visas of a particular class, means a Department or authority
of that State or Territory that is specified by Gazette Notice, for the
purposes of these Regulations, in relation to the grant of visas of that
class;
  "approved appointment" means an appointment that, under subregulation 5.16
(1), is an approved appointment for the purpose of these Regulations;
  "approved form" means a form approved by the Minister under section 495 of
the Act or regulation 1.18, and a reference to an approved form by number is a
reference to the form so approved and numbered;
  "Asia-Pacific forces member" means a person who:
  (a) is a member of the armed forces of Brunei, Fiji, Malaysia, Thailand or
Tonga; and
  (b) is travelling to Australia, or is in Australia, in the course of his or
her duty; and
  (c) holds military identity documents and movement orders issued from an
official source of the relevant country;
  "assisted student" means a student under:
  (a) the Subsidised Overseas Students Program administered by Education; or
  (b) a scholarship scheme, or a training program, that is approved by AIDAB;
  "assurance of support", in relation to an application for the grant of a
visa, means an assurance of support under Division 2.7;
  "AUD", in relation to an amount of money, means Australian dollars;
  "Australian permanent resident" means a non-citizen who, being usually
resident in Australia, is the holder of a permanent visa;
  "authorised officer" means an officer authorised by the Secretary for the
purposes of the provision in which it occurs;
  "award course" means a course of education or training leading to:
  (a) the completion of a primary or secondary education program; or
  (b) a degree, diploma, trade certificate or other formal award;
  "balance of family test" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.05;
  "bogus document" has the same meaning as in section 97 of the Act;
(NOTE: The definition is:
  "'bogus document', in relation to a person, means a document that the
Minister reasonably suspects is a document that: (a) purports to have been,
but was not, issued in respect of the person; or (b) is counterfeit or has
been altered by a person who does not have authority to do so; or (c) was
obtained because of a false or misleading statement, whether or not made
knowingly;".)
  "business skills points test" means the test set out in Schedule 7;
  "category A course", in relation to the holder of a visa or entry permit
granted before 1 September 1994, means a course of education or training
that:
  (a) is offered by an institution or other body or person in Australia that
is a registered provider, for the purposes of the Education Services for
Overseas Students (Registration of Providers and Financial Regulation) Act
1991, of that course in the State or Territory in which that person is
undertaking, or proposes to undertake, it; and
  (b) is either:
    (i) a course of primary or secondary education; or
    (ii) a post-secondary course (having as an entry requirement the
successful completion of Year 12 studies or the equivalent) leading to the
award of a degree, diploma (including an associate diploma and a graduate
diploma) or graduate certificate or to an equivalent award;
  "category A student" means a student who, immediately before 1 September
1994, held a Class 560 (student (category A)) entry permit granted under the
Migration (1993) Regulations or a student (Category A) (code number 560) entry
permit granted under the Migration (1989) Regulations;
  "category B course", in relation to the holder of a visa or entry permit
granted before 1 September 1994, means a course of education or training
that:
  (a) is offered by an institution or other body or person in Australia that
is a registered provider, for the purposes of the Education Services for
Overseas Students (Registration of Providers and Financial Regulation) Act
1991, of that course in the State or Territory in which that person is
undertaking, or proposes to undertake, it; and
  (b) is not a category A course;
  "category B student" means a student who, immediately before 1 September
1994, held a Class 561 (student (category B)) entry permit granted under the
Migration (1993) Regulations or a student (category B) (code number 561) entry
permit under the Migration (1989) Regulations;
  "clearance officer" has the meaning given by section 165 of the Act;
(NOTE: the definition is:
  "'clearance officer' means an officer, or other person, authorised by the
Minister to perform duties for the purposes of (Division 5 of Part 2 of the
Act)".)
  "close relative", in relation to a person, means:
  (a) the spouse of the person; or
  (b) a child, adopted child, parent, brother or sister of the person; or
  (c) a step-child, adopted step-child, step-parent, step-brother or
step-sister of the person;
  "Commissioner" means a Commissioner appointed under section 203 of the Act;
  "Commonwealth country" means each of the following countries:
  (a) Antigua;
  (b) Bahamas;
  (c) Barbados;
  (d) Belize;
  (e) Canada;
  (f) Grenada;
  (g) Jamaica;
  (h) Mauritius;
  (j) New Zealand;
  (k) Papua New Guinea;
  (l) Saint Lucia;
  (m) Saint Vincent and the Grenadines;
  (n) Solomon Islands;
  (p) St Christopher and Nevis;
  (q) Tuvalu;
  (r) the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
  "Commonwealth forces member" means a person who:
  (a) is a member of the armed forces of a Commonwealth country; and
  (b) is travelling to Australia in the course of his or her duty; and
  (c) holds military identity documents and movement orders issued from an
official source of the relevant country;
  "compelling need to work" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.08;
  "condition" means a condition set out in a clause of Schedule 8, and a
reference to a condition by number is a reference to the condition set out in
the clause so numbered in that Schedule;
  "criminal detention" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.09;
  "custody", in relation to a child, means:
  (a) the right to have the daily care and control of the child; and
  (b) the right and responsibility to make decisions concerning the daily care
and control of the child;
  "dependent", in relation to a person, means wholly or substantially
dependent on another person for financial, psychological or physical support;
  "dependent child" means the natural or adopted child of a person (other than
a child who is a spouse or engaged to be married), being a child:
  (a) who:
    (i) has not turned 18; and
    (ii) is wholly or substantially in the daily care and control of that
person; or
  (b) who:
    (i) has turned 18; and
    (ii) is dependent on that person; or
  (c) who is wholly or substantially incapacitated for work because of a
disability of a kind referred to in paragraphs (a) to (g) of the definition of
"disability" in subsection 4 (1) of the Disability Discrimination Act 1992;
  "Education" means the Department of Employment, Education and Training;
  "Education Minister" means the Minister for Employment, Education and
Training;
  "eligible business" has the meaning given to it in subsection 134 (10) of
the Act;
  "eligible New Zealand citizen" means a New Zealand citizen who:
  (a) is the holder of a special category visa; and
  (b) is usually resident in Australia; and
  (c) at the time of his or her last entry to Australia, would have satisfied
public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009;
  "entry permit" has the meaning given by subsection 4 (1) of the Act as in
force immediately before 1 September 1994, and includes an entry visa
operating as an entry permit;
  "entry visa" has the meaning given by subsections 4 (1) and 17 (5) of the
Act as in force immediately before 1 September 1994;
  "exchange student" means an overseas secondary school student participating
in a secondary school student exchange program approved by:
  (a) the State or Territory education authority that administers the program;
and
  (b) the Education Minister;
  "fiscal year", in relation to a business, means:
  (a) if there is applicable to the business by law an accounting period of 12
months-that period; or
  (b) in any other case-a period of 12 months approved by the Minister in
writing for that business;
  "Foreign Affairs" means the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade;
  "foreign armed forces dependant" means a person who:
  (a) is the spouse of, or a dependent relative of:
    (i) an Asia-Pacific forces member; or
    (ii) a Commonwealth forces member; or
    (iii) a SOFA forces member; or
    (iv) a SOFA forces civilian component member; and
  (b) holds a valid national passport and a certificate that he or she is the
spouse, or a dependent relative, of a person referred to in subparagraph (a)
        (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv); and
  (c) is accompanying or joining a person of that kind;
(NOTE: Under section 10 of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948, a child born
in Australia on or after 26 January 1949 but before 20 August 1986 acquired
Australian citizenship by birth. A child born in Australia on or after 20
August 1986 acquired Australian citizenship by birth only if one or both of
the parents was an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident. For
details see s. 10 of that Act.)
  "foreign naval forces member" means a person who forms part of the
complement of a ship of the regular armed forces of a foreign government and
is on board the ship;
  "Foreign Minister" means the Minister for Foreign Affairs;
  "formal course", in relation to the holder of a visa or entry permit granted
before 1 February 1991, means:
  (a) a course of study at a primary or secondary school approved, or within a
class of schools approved, by the Education Minister in writing for the
purposes of the definition of "formal course" in subregulation 2 (1) of the
Migration (1989) Regulations; or
  (b) any course of study approved in writing by the Education Minister as a
formal course for the purposes of that definition; or
  (c) a course of study at a technical and further education institution, or
at a higher education institution, leading to a formal award such as a degree
or diploma;
  "Gazette Notice" means:
  (a) a notice in the Gazette by the Minister that is authorised by the Act;
or
  (b) a notice under regulation 1.17;
  "guardian", in relation to a child, means a person who:
  (a) has responsibility for the long-term welfare of the child; and
  (b) has, in relation to the child, all the powers, rights and duties that
are vested by law or custom in the guardian of a child, other than:
    (i) the right to have the daily care and control of the child; and
    (ii) the right and responsibility to make decisions concerning the
daily care and control of the child;
  "guest of Government" means:
  (a) an official guest of the Australian government; or
  (b) a spouse or dependent relative of a person referred to in paragraph (a)
who is accompanying that person; and includes:
  (c) a member of the personal or official staff of a guest of Government,
being a member who is accompanying that guest; and
  (d) a media representative accompanying the official party of a guest of
Government;
  "home country", in relation to a person, means:
  (a) the country of which the person is a citizen; or
  (b) if the person is not usually resident in that country, the country of
which the person is usually a resident;
  "IELTS test" means the International English Language Testing System test;
  "Immigration" means the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs;
  "international air carrier" has the meaning given by subsection 504 (6) of
the Act;
  "in Australia" means in the migration zone;
  "labour agreement" means:
  (a) a formal agreement entered into between the Minister, or the Education
Minister, and a person or organisation in Australia under which an employer is
authorised to recruit persons (other than the holders of permanent visas) to
be employed by that employer in Australia; or
  (b) a formal agreement entered into between the Minister and a sporting
organisation under which the sporting organisation is authorised to recruit
persons (other than the holders of permanent visas) to take part in the
sporting activities of the sporting organisation, whether as employees or
otherwise;
  "labour market requirements" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.10;
  "main business" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.11;
  "marital relationship" includes a de facto relationship;
  "member of the crew", in relation to a non-military ship, means:
  (a) a person who is articled crew; or
  (b) a person who is not articled crew but is employed on the ship under
contract and is included in the crew list or the supernumerary crew list of
the ship; or
  (c) if the ship is a ship of the kind described in paragraph (b) of the
definition of "non-military ship"-a person who is employed in scientific
research conducted on or from the ship;
  "member of the family unit" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.12;
  "member of the Royal Family" means a member of the Queen's immediate
family;
  "member of the Royal party" includes:
  (a) a member of the personal staff of the Queen who is accompanying Her
Majesty in Australia; and
  (b) a member of the personal staff of a member of the Royal Family, being a
staff member who is accompanying that member of the Royal Family in Australia;
and
  (c) a media representative accompanying the official party of the Queen or
of a member of the Royal Family in Australia; and
  (d) a person who is accompanying the Queen or a member of the Royal Family
in Australia as a member of the official party of the Queen or the member of
the Royal Family;
  "Migration (1959) Regulations" means the Regulations comprising Statutory
Rules 1959 No. 35 and those Regulations as amended from time to time;
  "Migration (1989) Regulations" means the Regulations comprising Statutory
Rules 1989 No. 365 and those Regulations as amended from time to time;
  "Migration (1993) Regulations" means the Regulations comprising Statutory
Rules 1992 No. 367 and those Regulations as amended from time to time;
(NOTE: The Migration (1993) Regulations are listed in full in Part 1 of the
Schedule to the Migration Reform (Transitional Provisions) Regulations. They
are repealed by regulation 42 of those Regulations but continue to apply to
certain matters.)
  "nominator" has the meaning given by regulation 1.13;
  "non-award course" means a course of education or training that is not an
award course;
  "non-formal course", in relation to the holder of a visa or entry permit
granted before 1 February 1991, means a course of study or training other than
a formal course;
  "non-formal course student", in relation to a visa or entry permit granted
before 1 February 1991, means a person granted entry to Australia to attend a
full-time non-formal course of study;
  "non-military ship" means:
  (a) a ship that is engaged in:
    (i) commercial trade; or
    (ii) the carriage of passengers for reward; or
  (b) a ship that is owned and operated by a foreign government for the
purposes of scientific research; or
  (c) has been accorded public vessel status by Foreign Affairs; or
  (d) a ship:
    (i) that is being imported into Australia; and
    (ii) of which the master has not entered into an agreement with the
crew under the Navigation Act 1912;
  "NOOSR" means the National Office of Overseas Skills Recognition within
Education;
  "occupational trainee" means a person who is in Australia as the holder of a
Subclass 442 (Occupational Trainee) visa;
  "Occupational English Test" means an Occupational English Test conducted by
the National Language and Literacy Institute of Australia;
  "Occupations Requiring English List" means the list mentioned in regulation
1.19;
  "orphan relative" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.14;
  "outside Australia" means outside the migration zone;
  "overseas passenger" means:
  (a) in relation to a vessel arriving at a port in Australia in the course
of, or at the conclusion of, an overseas voyage-a passenger:
    (i) who:
      (A) was on board the vessel when it left a place outside Australia at
the commencement of, or during the course of, the voyage; and
      (B) whose journey in the vessel ends in Australia; or
    (ii) who:
      (A) was on board the vessel when it left a place outside Australia at
the commencement of, or during the course of, the voyage; and
      (B) intends to journey in the vessel to a place outside Australia;
and
  (b) in relation to a vessel leaving a port in Australia and bound for or
calling at a place outside Australia-a passenger on board the vessel who:
    (i) joined the vessel at a port in Australia; and
    (ii) intends to journey in the vessel to or beyond that place outside
Australia;
(NOTE: Under the Act, "vessel" includes an aircraft, and "port" includes an
airport.)
  "overseas voyage", in relation to a vessel, means a voyage that commenced
at, or during which the vessel called at, a place outside Australia;
  "ownership interest" has the meaning given to it in subsection 134 (10) of
the Act;
  "parent" includes an adoptive parent and a step-parent;
  "parole" means conditional release from prison before the completion of a
sentence of imprisonment;
  "passenger card" means a card of the kind referred to in section 506 of the
Act;
  "periodic detention" means a system of restriction of liberty by which
periods at liberty alternate with periods in prison, and includes the systems
of intermittent imprisonment known as day release and weekend release;
  "permanent entry permit" means an entry permit that had effect without
limitation as to time;
  "permanent entry visa" means an entry visa that operated as, or was capable
of operating as, a permanent entry permit;
  "points system" means the system of assessment under Subdivision B of
Division 3 of Part 2 of the Act;
  "PRC" means the People's Republic of China;
  "prescribed form" means a form set out in Schedule 10, and a reference to a
prescribed form by number is a reference to the form so numbered in that
Schedule;
  "prohibited non-citizen" means a person who, on or before 18 December 1989,
was a prohibited non-citizen within the meaning of the Act as in force at that
time;
  "public interest criterion" means a criterion set out in a clause of
Schedule 4, and a reference to a public interest criterion by number is a
reference to the criterion set out in the clause so numbered in that
Schedule;
  "registered course" means a course of education or training offered by an
institution, body or person that is registered as a provider under section 5
of the Education Services for Overseas Students (Registration of Providers and
Financial Regulation) Act 1991;
(NOTE: A current list of registered courses appears in the Commonwealth
Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students kept under section
5 of the Education Services for Overseas Students (Registration of Providers
and Financial Regulation) Act 1991.)
  "relative", in relation to a person, means:
  (a) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 305 (Interdependency
(Temporary)) visa, a Subclass 826 (Extended Eligibility (Interdependency))
visa, a Subclass 814 (Interdependency (Permanent)) visa, a Subclass 200
(Refugee) visa or a Protection (Class AZ) visa:
    (i) a close relative; or
    (ii) a grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece or nephew, or a
step-grandparent, step-grandchild, step-aunt, step-uncle, step-niece or
step-nephew; or
    (iii) a first or second cousin; or
  (b) in any other case:
    (i) a close relative; or
    (ii) a grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece or nephew, or a
step-grandparent, step-grandchild, step-aunt, step-uncle, step-niece or
step-nephew;
(NOTE: "Close relative" is defined in this regulation: see above.)
  "remaining relative" has the meaning set out in regulation 1.15;
  "review authority" means:
  (a) a person who is a review officer for the purposes of Part 5 of the Act;
and
  (b) the Immigration Review Tribunal; and for the purposes of Parts 010, 020,
030, 040, 041, 042 and 050 of Schedule 2, includes the Refugee Review
Tribunal;
  "Schedule 3 criterion" means a criterion set out in a clause of Schedule 3,
and a reference to a Schedule 3 criterion by number is a reference to the
criterion set out in the clause so numbered in that Schedule;
  "school-age dependant", in relation to a person, means a member of the
family unit of the person who has turned 5, but has not turned 19;
  "settled", in relation to an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen, means lawfully resident in
Australia for a reasonable period;
  "SOFA forces civilian component member" means a person who:
  (a) is, for the purposes of a Status of Forces Agreement between Australia
and Papua New Guinea, Singapore or the United States of America, a member of
the civilian component of the armed forces of one of those countries; and
  (b) holds a national passport that is in force and a certificate that he or
she is a member of the civilian component of the armed forces of the relevant
country;
  "SOFA forces member" means a person who:
  (a) is, for the purposes of a Status of Forces Agreement between Australia
and Papua New Guinea, Singapore or the United States of America, a member of
the armed forces of one of those countries; and
  (b) holds military identity documents and movement orders issued from an
official source of the relevant country;
  "special need relative", in relation to an Australian citizen usually
resident in Australia, an Australian permanent resident usually resident in
Australia or an eligible New Zealand citizen, means a relative who is willing
and able to provide substantial and continuing assistance to the citizen or
resident if:
  (a) the citizen or resident has a permanent or long-term need for assistance
because of death, disability, prolonged illness or other serious circumstances
affecting the citizen or resident personally, or a member of his or her family
unit; and
  (b) the assistance cannot reasonably be obtained from:
    (i) any other relative of the citizen or resident, being a relative who
is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an eligible New
Zealand citizen; or
    (ii) welfare, hospital, nursing or community services in Australia;
  "special return criterion" means a criterion set out in a clause of Schedule
5, and a reference to a special return criterion by number is a reference to
the criterion set out in the clause so numbered in that Schedule;
  "sponsor" has the meaning given by regulation 1.20;
  "sponsorship" means an undertaking of the kind referred to in regulation
1.20 to sponsor an applicant;
  "spouse" means:
  (a) a person who has entered into a marriage recognised as valid for the
purposes of the Act, if:
    (i) the marriage has not been ended by divorce or the death of one of
the parties; and
    (ii) the parties are not living separately and apart on a permanent
basis; or
  (b) a de facto spouse;
  "subsidised student" means a student enrolled in a course of study in
respect of which the student is subsidised under the Subsidised Overseas
Student Program administered by Education;
  "temporary entry permit" means an entry permit whose effect was subject to a
limitation as to time;
  "the Act" means the Migration Act 1958;
  "tourism" means participation in activities of a recreational nature
including amateur sporting activities, informal study courses, relaxation,
sightseeing and travel;
  "trainee", in the case of a visa or entry permit granted before 1 February
1991, means a person:
  (a) in respect of whom the Education Minister has approved participation in
occupational training in Australia; and
  (b) who has been granted a visa or an entry permit to enable such
participation;
  "transit passenger" means a person who:
  (a) enters Australia by aircraft; and
  (b) holds a confirmed onward booking to leave Australia to travel to a third
country on the same or another aircraft within 8 hours of the person's arrival
in Australia; and
  (c) is a citizen of a country listed in Part 3 of Schedule 9; and
  (d) holds documentation necessary to enter the country of his or her
destination;
  "work" means an activity that, in Australia, normally attracts
remuneration;
  "working age" means:
  (a) in the case of a female, under 60 years of age; and
  (b) in the case of a male, under 65 years of age;
  "working age parent" means a parent other than an aged parent.
(NOTE: "aged parent" is defined in this regulation.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.04
Adoption


  1.04. (1) A person (in this regulation called "the adoptee") is taken to
have been adopted by a person (in this regulation called "the adopter") if,
before the adoptee attained the age of 18 years, the adopter assumed a
parental role in relation to the adoptee under:
  (a) formal adoption arrangements made in accordance with, or recognised
under, the law of a State or Territory of Australia relating to the adoption
of children; or
  (b) formal adoption arrangements made in accordance with the law of another
country, being arrangements under which the persons who were recognised by law
as the parents of the adoptee before those arrangements took effect ceased to
be so recognised and the adopter became so recognised; or
  (c) other arrangements entered into outside Australia that, under
subregulation (2), are taken to be in the nature of adoption.

  (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) (c), arrangements are taken to be in
the nature of adoption if:
  (a) the arrangements were made in accordance with the usual practice, or a
recognised custom, in the culture or cultures of the adoptee and the adopter;
and
  (b) the child-parent relationship between the adoptee and the adopter is
significantly closer than any such relationship between the adoptee and any
other person or persons, having regard to the nature and duration of the
arrangements; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) formal adoption of the kind referred to in paragraph (1) (b):
      (A) was not available under the law of the place where the
arrangements were made; or
      (B) was not reasonably practicable in the circumstances; and
    (ii) the arrangements have not been contrived to circumvent Australian
migration requirements.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.05
Balance of family test


  1.05. (1) For the purposes of this regulation:
  (a) a person is a child of another person ("the parent") if the person is a
child, adopted child or step-child of:
    (i) the parent; or
    (ii) any spouse or former spouse of the parent; and
  (b) if the whereabouts of a child of the parent are unknown, the child is
taken to be resident in the usual country of residence of the parent.

  (2) A parent satisfies the balance of family test if:
  (a) each of the children of the parent is either:
    (i) lawfully and permanently resident in Australia; or
    (ii) a person who is:
      (A) the holder of a special category visa; and
      (B) usually resident in Australia; or
  (b) the number of children of the parent who are lawfully and permanently
resident in Australia or are holders of special category visas usually
resident in Australia is:
    (i) greater than, or equal to, the total number of children of the
parent who are resident overseas; or
    (ii) greater than the greatest number of children of the parent who are
resident in any single overseas country.

  (3) In applying the balance of family test, no account is to be taken of
children of the parent if they are:
  (a) children removed by court order, by adoption or by operation of law
(other than in consequence of marriage) from the exclusive custody of the
parent; or
  (b) children resident in a country where the children suffer persecution or
abuse of human rights and it is not possible to reunite the children and the
parent in another country; or
  (c) children who are:
    (i) resident in a refugee camp operated by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees or by the government of Hong Kong; and
    (ii) registered by the Commissioner as refugees.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.06
References to classes of visas


  1.06. A class of visas may be referred to :
  (a) in the case of a class of visas referred to in Schedule 1- by the code
allotted to the class in the heading of the item in Schedule 1 that relates to
that class of visas; or
  (b) in the case of a transitional visa, by the following codes:
    (i) transitional (permanent): BF;
    (ii) transitional (temporary): UA.
(NOTE: For example, Cultural/Social (Temporary) Class may be referred to as
Class TE.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.07
References to subclasses of visas


  1.07. (1) A reference to a visa of a particular subclass (for example, "a
visa of Subclass 414") is a reference to a visa granted on satisfaction of the
criteria set out in the Part of Schedule 2 that bears the number of the
subclass.

  (2) A reference to an applicant for a visa of a particular subclass is a
reference to an applicant who applies for a visa of a class that may, under
Schedule 1, be granted on satisfaction of the criteria set out in the Part of
Schedule 2 that bears the number of the subclass.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.08
Compelling need to work


  1.08. For the purposes of these Regulations, a non-citizen has a compelling
need to work if and only if:
  (a) he or she is in financial hardship; or
  (b) he or she:
    (i) is nominated by an employer in respect of an approved appointment
(within the meaning of regulation 5.19); and
    (ii) appears to the Minister, on the basis of information contained in
the application, to meet the criteria in clause 805.213 of Schedule 2; or
  (c) he or she:
    (i) is an applicant for a Business (Temporary) (Class TB) visa; and
    (ii) has been sponsored by an employer in relation to that application;
and
    (iii) appears, on the basis of that application, to meet the criteria
for that visa.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.09
Criminal detention


  1.09. For the purposes of these Regulations, a person is in criminal
detention if he or she is:
  (a) serving a term of imprisonment (including  periodic detention) following
conviction for an offence; or
  (b) in prison on remand; but not if he or she is:
  (c) subject to a community service order; or
  (d) on parole after serving part of a term of imprisonment; or
  (e) on bail awaiting trial.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.10
Labour market requirements


  1.10. An application for a visa meets labour market requirements if the
Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) the application is in accordance with a labour agreement; or
  (b) in respect of the employment to which the application relates:
    (i) no Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident is readily
available who has suitable qualifications and experience; and
    (ii) if appropriate-relevant employer and employee organisations have
been consulted.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.11
Main business


  1.11. (1) For the purposes of these Regulations and subject to subregulation
(2), a business is a main business in relation to an applicant for a visa if:
  (a) the applicant has, or has had, an ownership interest in the business;
and
  (b) the applicant maintains, or has maintained, direct and continuous
involvement in management of the business from day to day and in making
decisions affecting the overall direction and performance of the business;
and
  (c) the value of the applicant's ownership interest, or the total value of
the ownership interests of the applicant and the applicant's spouse, in the
business is or was at least 10% of the total value of the business.

  (2) If an applicant has, or has had, an ownership interest in more than 1
business that would, except for this subregulation, be a main business in
relation to the applicant, the applicant must not nominate more than 2 of
those businesses as main businesses.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.12
Member of the family unit


  1.12. (1) Subject to subregulation (2), a person is a member of the family
unit of another person (in this subregulation called "the family head") if the
person is:
  (a) a spouse of the family head, where the relationship is a genuine and
continuing relationship;
  (b) a dependent child of the family head or of a spouse of the family head;
or
  (c) a dependent child of a dependent child of the family head or of a spouse
of the family head; or
  (d) a relative of the family head or of a spouse of the family head who:
    (i) does not have a surviving spouse or any other relative (other than
the family head) able to care for that relative in the relevant country; and
    (ii) is usually resident in the family head's household; and
    (iii) is dependent on the family head; or
  (e) a relative of the family head or of a spouse of the family head who:
    (i) has never married or is widowed, divorced or separated; and
    (ii) is usually resident in the family head's household; and
    (iii) is dependent on the family head.

  (2) A person is a member of the family unit of an applicant for a Student
(Temporary) (Class TU) visa:
  (a) a spouse of the applicant; or
  (b) a dependent child of the applicant or of that spouse who is unmarried
and has not turned 18; or
  (c) a person who has entered into an agreement to marry the applicant if the
applicant and that person intend that the marriage is to take place not later
than 3 months after the entry of the person to Australia.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.13
Nominator


  1.13. For the purposes of these Regulations, "nominator", in relation to an
applicant for a visa, means:
  (a) a person who puts forward, on the relevant approved form, the name of
the applicant as an applicant for a visa of a particular class; but does not
include:
  (b) a person who proposes another person as an applicant for a Subclass 202
(Global Humanitarian) visa; or
  (c) a person or body who gives an undertaking of a kind referred to in Part
208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213 or 214 of Schedule 2.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.14
Orphan relative


  1.14. An applicant for a visa is an orphan relative of another person who is
an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an eligible New
Zealand citizen if:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) has not turned 18; and
    (ii) is unmarried; and
    (iii) is a relative of that other person; and
  (b) the applicant cannot be cared for by either parent because each of them
is either dead, permanently incapacitated or of unknown whereabouts; and
  (c) it is in the best interests of the applicant if he or she settles with
that other person in Australia.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.15
Remaining relative


  1.15. (1) An applicant for a visa is a remaining relative if the applicant
has a relative who:
  (a) is:
    (i) a brother, sister or parent; or
    (ii) a step-brother, step-sister or step-parent;
of the applicant; and
  (b) is:
    (i) an Australian citizen; or
    (ii) an Australian permanent resident; or
    (iii) an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) is usually resident in Australia;
unless the applicant is disqualified under subregulation (2).

  (2) An applicant is disqualified if:
  (a) the applicant or the spouse (if any) of the applicant:
    (i) usually resides in the same country, not being Australia, as an
overseas near relative; or
    (ii) has had contact with an overseas near relative during a reasonable
period preceding the application; or
  (b) the applicant and the spouse (if any) of the applicant together have
more than 3 overseas near relatives; or
  (c) the applicant is a child who:
    (i) has not turned 18; and
    (ii) has been adopted by an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen (in this paragraph called "the
adoptive parent") while overseas;
but, at the time of the application, the adoptive parent has not been residing
overseas for a period of at least 12 months.

  (3) In this regulation, "overseas near relative" means a person who is:
  (a) a parent, brother, sister or non-dependent child; or
  (b) a step-parent, step-brother, step-sister or non-dependent step-child;
of the applicant or of the spouse (if any) of the applicant but is not a
relative of a kind referred to in subregulation (1).




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.16
Delegation


  1.16. (1) The Minister may, by writing signed by the Minister, delegate to
an officer any of the Minister's powers under these Regulations, other than
this power of delegation.

  (2) The Secretary may, by writing signed by the Secretary, delegate to an
officer any of the Secretary's powers under these Regulations, other than this
power of delegation.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.17
Specification of matters by Gazette Notice


  1.17. The Minister may, by notice published in the Gazette, specify matters
required by individual provisions of these Regulations to be specified for the
purposes of those provisions.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.18
Approved forms


  1.18. The Minister may, in writing, approve forms for:
  (a) use in making an application for a visa; or
  (b) any other purpose authorised or required by these Regulations.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.19
Occupations Requiring English List


  1.19 The Minister may publish by Gazette Notice a list of occupations
requiring proficiency in English of at least the standard required for the
award of 15 points under Part 3 of Schedule 6.
(NOTE: Part 3 of Schedule 6 deals with the award of points on the basis of an
applicant's language skills.)




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 1.20
Sponsorship


  1.20. (1) For the purposes of these Regulations, "sponsor", in relation to
an applicant for a visa, means a person who undertakes the obligations of a
sponsor in relation to the applicant, but does not include:
  (a) a person who proposes another person as an applicant for a Subclass 202
(Global Humanitarian) visa; or
  (b) a person or body who gives an undertaking of a kind referred to in Part
208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213 or 214 of Schedule 2.

  (2) The obligations of a sponsor in relation to an applicant for a visa are
the following:
  (a) if the application is for a permanent visa (other than a Subclass 129
(State/Territory Sponsored Business Owner) or Subclass 130 (State/Territory
Sponsored Senior Executive) visa)-the sponsor undertakes to assist the
applicant, to the extent necessary, financially and in respect of
accommodation, during the period of 12 months immediately following the
applicant's entry into Australia under that visa;
  (b) if the application is for a temporary visa-the sponsor accepts
responsibility for:
    (i) all financial obligations to the Commonwealth incurred by the
applicant arising out of the applicant's stay in Australia; and
    (ii) compliance by the applicant with all relevant legislation and
awards in relation to any employment entered into by the applicant in
Australia; and
    (iii) unless the Minister otherwise decides, compliance by the
applicant with the conditions under which the applicant was allowed to enter
Australia.

  (3) A person who has been approved by the Minister as the sponsor of an
applicant for a visa must enter into the sponsorship by completing the
relevant approved form and give it to the Minister not later than a reasonable
period after the Minister approves the person as a sponsor.






1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.01
Classes of visas (Act, s. 31)


  2.01. For the purposes of section 31 of the Act, the prescribed classes of
visas are:
  (a) such classes (other than those created by the Act) as are set out in the
respective items in Schedule 1; and
  (b) the following classes:
    (i) transitional (permanent); and
    (ii) transitional (temporary).
(NOTE: For the classes created by the Act, see ss. 32 to 38.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.02
Subclasses


  2.02. (1) Schedule 2 is divided into Parts, each identified by the word
"Subclass" followed by a 3-digit number (being the number of the subclass of
visa to which the Part relates) and the title of the subclass.

  (2) For the purposes of this Part and Schedules 1 and 2, a Part of Schedule
2 is relevant to a particular class of visa if the Part of Schedule 2 is
listed under the subitem "Subclasses" in the item in Schedule 1 that refers to
that class of visa.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.03
Criteria applicable to classes of visas


  2.03. (1) For the purposes of subsection 31 (3) of the Act (which deals with
criteria for the grant of a visa), the prescribed criteria for the grant to a
person of a visa of a particular class are:
  (a) the primary criteria set out in a relevant Part of Schedule 2; or
  (b) if a relevant Part of Schedule 2 sets out secondary criteria, those
secondary criteria.

  (2) If a criterion in Schedule 2 refers to a criterion in Schedule 3, 4 or 5
by number, a criterion so referred to must be satisfied by an applicant as if
it were set out at length in the first-mentioned criterion.

  (3) If a criterion in Schedule 2 specifies that a person is to be the holder
of, or have held, a visa of a particular class or subclass, that criterion is
taken to be satisfied:
  (a) if:
    (i) before 1 September 1994, the person held a visa or entry permit
that was granted under the Migration (1993) Regulations, the Migration (1989)
Regulations or the Act as in force before 19 December 1989; and
    (ii) the criteria that were applicable to, or the grounds for the grant
of, that visa or entry permit are the same in effect as the criteria
applicable to the new visa; and
    (iii) the visa or entry permit was continued in force as a transitional
visa on 1 September 1994 by the Migration Reform (Transitional Provisions)
Regulations; or
  (b) if:
    (i) before 1 September 1994, the person applied for a visa or entry
permit under the Migration (1993) Regulations, the Migration (1989)
Regulations or the Act as in force before 19 December 1989; and
    (ii) the criteria that were applicable to, or the grounds for the grant
of, that visa or entry permit are the same in effect as the criteria
applicable to the new visa; and
    (iii) either:
      (A) in the case of an application made before 19 December 1989-the
Minister had not made a decision on the application; or
      (B) in any other case-the application had not been finally
determined;
before 1 September 1994; and
    (iv) on or after 1 September 1994 the person was granted a transitional
visa under the Migration Reform (Transitional Provisions) Regulations on the
basis that he or she had satisfied the criteria, or the grounds, applicable to
the visa or entry permit referred to in subparagraph (i).


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.04
Circumstances in which a visa may be granted (Act, s. 40)


  2.04. For the purposes of section 40 of the Act, and subject to these
Regulations, the only circumstances in which a visa of a particular class may
be granted to a person who has satisfied the criteria in a relevant Part of
Schedule 2 are the circumstances set out in that Part of Schedule 2.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.05
Conditions applicable to visas


  2.05. (1) For the purposes of subsection 41 (1) of the Act (which deals with
conditions that apply to a visa), the conditions to which a visa is subject
are the conditions (if any) set out in, or referred to in, the Part of
Schedule 2 that relates to visas of the subclass in which the visa is
included.

  (2) For the purposes of subsection 41 (3) of the Act (which deals with
conditions that may be imposed on a visa), the conditions that the Minister
may impose on a visa are the conditions (if any) referred to as being
conditions that may be imposed in the Part of Schedule 2 that relates to visas
of the subclass in which the visa is included.

  (3) For the purposes of subsection 29 (2) and (3) of the Act (which deal
with the period during which the holder of a visa may travel to, enter and
remain in Australia), the limits on the period within which a person may:
  (a) remain in Australia; or
  (b) travel to, enter, and remain in Australia;
as the case requires, under the authority of a visa of a particular subclass
are specified in the relevant Part of Schedule 2.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.06
Non-citizens who do not require visas to travel to Australia


  2.06. For the purposes of subsection 42 (3) of the Act (which deals with the
classes of person who may travel to Australia without a visa that is in
effect), the following classes of non-citizens are prescribed:
  (a) New Zealand citizens who hold and produce New Zealand passports that are
in force;
  (b) non-citizens who hold and produce passports that are in force and are
endorsed with an authority to reside indefinitely  on Norfolk Island.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.07
Application for visa-general


  2.07. (1) For the purposes of sections 45 and 46 of the Act (dealing with
application for a visa), if an application is required for a particular class
of visa, the following matters are set out in the relevant Part of Schedule
1:
  (a) the approved form (if any) to be completed by an applicant;
  (b) the fee (if any) payable on an application;
  (c) other matters relating to the application.

  (2) A fee is not payable on an application for a visa if:
  (a) the application is combined with another application in a way permitted
by:
    (i) the relevant item in Schedule 1; or
    (ii) regulation 2.08; and
  (b) the fee (if any) has been paid on that other application.

  (3) An applicant must complete an approved form in accordance with any
directions on it.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.08
Application by newborn child


  2.08. (1) If:
  (a) a non-citizen applies for a visa; and
  (b) after the application is made but before it is decided, a child is born
to the non-citizen;
then:
  (c) the child is taken to have applied for a visa of the same class at the
time he or she was born; and
  (d) the child's application is taken to be combined with the non-citizen's
application.

  (2) Despite any provision in Schedule 2, a child referred to in
subregulation (1):
  (a) must satisfy the criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision; and
  (b) at the time of decision must satisfy a criterion (if any) applicable at
the time of application that an applicant must be sponsored, nominated or
proposed.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.09
Application taken to have been validly made (Act, s. 46 (2))


  2.09 For the purposes of subsection 46 (2) of the Act (which deals with the
circumstances in which an application is valid):
  (a) all classes of visas that may be applied for in Australia are
prescribed; and
  (b) the application is taken to have been validly made if made in the
circumstances set out in paragraph 2.22 (c).


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.10
Where application must be made


  2.10. (1) An application for a visa must be made:
  (a) in the case of an application to be made outside Australia:
    (i) at a diplomatic, consular or migration office maintained by or on
behalf of the Commonwealth outside Australia; or
    (ii) if the application is for a Long Stay (Visitor) (Class TN), Short
Stay (Visitor) (Class TR) or Special Tourist (Visitor) (Class TS) visa-at an
office of a visa application agency approved in writing for that purpose by
the Minister; or
  (b) in the case of an application to be made in Australia:
    (i) if the applicant is in Australia-subject to subregulations (2) and
(3), at an office of Immigration in the State or Territory in which the
applicant is at the time of application; or
    (ii) if the applicant is not in Australia-at any office of Immigration
in Australia.

  (2) An applicant who is in New South Wales may make his or her application
at the regional office of Immigration in the Australian Capital Territory.

  (3) An unlawful non-citizen who is located by an officer of Immigration may
apply for a bridging visa directly to that officer.

  (4) For the purposes of subregulation (1), an office occupied by an officer
of Immigration at an airport or a detention centre is an office of
Immigration.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.11
Special provision for certain applications refused outside Australia


  2.11. (1) If:
  (a) a non-citizen has made an application (in this regulation called "the
first application") outside Australia for a visa; and
  (b) the visa has been refused; and
  (c) it appears to the Minister, on the basis of the information available to
the Minister, that, if the non-citizen had applied for a visa of a different
class, the visa would be likely to have been granted;
the Minister may invite the non-citizen to make an application (in this
regulation called "the further application") for a visa of that class.

  (2) An invitation made under subregulation (1) is to be for:
  (a) if the visa originally applied for was a permanent visa-a permanent
visa; or
  (b) if the visa originally applied for was a temporary visa-a temporary
visa;
except that:
  (c) if the visa originally applied for was a Prospective Marriage
(Temporary) (Class TO) visa, the Minister may invite the applicant to make a
further application for a Spouse (Migrant) (Class BC) visa; and
  (d) if the visa originally applied for was a Spouse (Migrant) (Class BC)
visa, the Minister may invite the applicant to make a further application for
a Prospective Marriage (Temporary) (Class TO) visa.

  (3) A review authority is not to invite a further application under
subregulation (1).

  (4) The non-citizen must make the further application within 28 days (or, if
the Minister in the circumstances of the case so decides, 70 days) after the
day on which the non-citizen is notified of the invitation to make that
application.

  (5) If the Minister invites a non-citizen to make a further application, the
fee payable on that application is the amount (if any) by which the fee
payable on the further application is greater than the fee paid on the first
application.

  (6) If the Minister invites a non-citizen to make a further application, and
the fee payable on an application for the class applied for under the further
application is less than the fee paid on the first application, the
non-citizen is not entitled to a refund of the difference.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.12
Certain non-citizens whose applications refused in Australia (Act, s. 48)


  2.12 (1) For the purposes of section 48 of the Act (which limits further
applications by a person whose visa has been cancelled, or whose application
for a visa has been refused) the following classes of visas are prescribed:
  (a) Change in Circumstances (Residence) (Class AG);
  (b) Citizens of former Yugoslavia (Temporary) (Class TC);
  (c) subject to subregulation (2), Protection (Class AZ);
  (d) Sri Lankan (Temporary) (Class TT);
  (e) Territorial Asylum (Residence) (Class BE);
  (f) Border (Temporary) (Class TA);
  (g) Special Category (Temporary) (Class TY);
  (h) Bridging A (Class WA);
  (j) Bridging B(Class WB);
  (k) Bridging C (Class WC);
  (l) Bridging D (Class WD);
  (m) Bridging E (Class WE).

  (2) If a person has previously applied for a Protection (Class AZ) visa and
the application has been finally determined, paragraph (1) (c) applies to him
or her if and only if:
  (a) he or she proposes to make a further application for a visa of that
class; and
  (b) in the new application for a visa of that class, he or she:
    (i) makes a new claim under the Refugees Convention (as amended by the
Refugees Protocol); or
    (ii) provides new evidence relating to a previously considered claim
under the Refugees Convention (as amended by the Refugees Protocol); or
    (iii) provides new information about the country from which the person
claims to be a refugee under the Refugees Convention (as amended by the
Refugees Protocol), and the new information indicates that there has been a
change in conditions in that country of a kind that enhances the person's
chances of making a successful claim under the Refugees Convention (as amended
by the Refugees Protocol).




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.13
Communication with Minister


  2.13. (1) For the purposes of section 52 of the Act (which deals with the
way in which an applicant or interested person must communicate with the
Minister), an applicant or interested person must communicate with the
Minister about a visa application in the way provided by this regulation.

  (2) Except as provided by subregulation (3), the communication must be in
writing.

  (3) The communication may be oral if it is:
  (a) a communication about an application for a bridging visa; or
  (b) an enquiry about the stage reached in the consideration of a visa
application.

  (4) A written communication must include:
  (a) the applicant's full name, as set out in the application; and
  (b) the applicant's date of birth; and
  (c) either:
    (i) the Immigration file number, if that number has previously been
given to the applicant in writing; or
    (ii) if subparagraph (i) does not apply-the number of the receipt
issued by Immigration when the application was given to the Minister; and
  (d) if the application was made outside Australia, the name of the office at
which the application was given to the Minister.

  (5) A document accompanying a written communication must be:
  (a) the original; or
  (b) a copy of the original certified in writing to be a true copy by:
    (i) a Justice of the Peace; or
    (ii) a Commissioner for Declarations; or
    (iii) a person before whom a statutory declaration may be made under
the Statutory Declarations Act 1959; or
    (iv) if the copy is to be certified in a place outside Australia-a
person who is the equivalent of a Justice of the Peace or Commissioner for
Declarations in that place.
(NOTE: This regulation is subject to sections 56 and 58 of the Act, which
provide that the Minister may specify the way in which additional information
or comments about an application may be given by an applicant. If the Minister
specifies a way in which further information or comments must be given for the
purposes of either of those sections, the information or comments must be
given in that way. Regulation 2.13 then does not apply.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.14
Where written communication must be sent


  2.14. For the purposes of section 52 of the Act (which deals with the way in
which an applicant or interested person must communicate with the Minister), a
written communication to the Minister about an application must be sent to or
left at:
  (a) the office at which the application was given to the Minister; or
  (b) if the Minister has notified the applicant in writing of another office
in substitution for that office-that other office.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.15
Response to invitation to give information or comments-prescribed periods


  2.15. (1) For the purposes of subsection 58 (2) of the Act (which deals with
invitations to make comments or give further information), and subject to
subregulation (2), the prescribed period for giving additional information or
comments in response to an invitation is:
  (a) in the case of an application for a substantive visa that was made by an
applicant who is in immigration detention-3 working days after the applicant
is notified of the invitation; or
  (b) in the case of an application made by an applicant who is in Australia,
other than a person referred to in paragraph (a):
    (i) in the case of an application for a Long Stay (Visitor) (Class TN)
or Short Stay (Visitor) (Class TR) visa-7 days after the applicant is notified
of the invitation; or
    (ii) in any other case-28 days after the applicant is notified of the
invitation; or
  (c) in the case of an application made by an applicant who is not in
Australia:
    (i) 28 days; or
    (ii) if the Minister so decides in the circumstances of the case-70
days;
after the applicant is notified of the invitation.

  (2) Subregulation (1) does not apply to a request for information or
comments to be obtained from a third party regarding the following matters:
  (a) the applicant's health;
  (b) the satisfaction by the applicant of public interest criteria;
  (c) the satisfaction of criteria relating to the applicant's capacity to
communicate in English;
  (d) assessment of the applicant's skills or qualifications.

  (3) For the purposes of paragraph 58 (3) (b) of the Act (which deals with
the time in which an interview is to take place), the prescribed period is:
  (a) in the case of an application for a substantive visa that was made by an
applicant who is in immigration detention-3 working days after the applicant
is notified of the invitation; or
  (b) in the case of an application made by an applicant who is in Australia,
other than a person referred to in paragraph (a):
    (i) in the case of an application for a Long Stay (Visitor) (Class TN)
or Short Stay (Visitor) (Class TR) visa-7 days after the applicant is notified
of the invitation; or
    (ii) in any other case-28 days after the applicant is notified of the
invitation; or
  (c) in the case of an application made by an applicant who is not in
Australia:
    (i) 28 days; or
    (ii) if the Minister so decides in the circumstances of the case-70
days;
 after the applicant is notified of the invitation.

  (4) For the purposes of subsection 58 (4) or (5) of the Act (dealing with
extending the period to respond to an invitation or attend for interview), the
prescribed further period is:
  (a) if the applicant is in immigration detention-2 working days; or
  (b) if the applicant is in Australia but is not in immigration detention-7
days; or
  (c) if the applicant is not in Australia:
    (i) 7 days; or
    (ii) if the Minister so decides in the circumstances of the case-28
days;
after the applicant is notified of the invitation.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.16
Notification of decision on visa application


  2.16. (1) For the purposes of subsection 66 (1) of the Act (dealing with
giving notice of decisions), the Minister is to notify an applicant of a
decision to grant or refuse a visa:
  (a) if the decision is to grant the visa:
    (i) if under these Regulations evidence of that visa must be given to
the applicant in a particular way-by giving the applicant evidence of the visa
in that way; or
    (ii) if under these Regulations no evidence of the visa need be given
to the applicant-by telling the applicant orally that the visa has been
granted; or
  (b) in the case of a bridging visa granted at the same time as a substantive
visa-by giving the applicant evidence of the substantive visa; or
  (c) by sending a notice of the decision to, or leaving a notice of the
decision at, the last address given to the Minister by the applicant under
section 53 of the Act (which deals with what an applicant must tell the
Minister); or
  (d) by handing a notice of the decision to the applicant or a person
specified by the applicant under subsection 53 (4) of the Act.

  (2) If 2 or more applicants have combined their applications in a way
permitted by Schedule 1, the Minister need notify only 1 of those applicants
of the Minister's decisions on those applications.
(NOTE: The matters that the notice must include are set out in s. 66 (2) of
the Act.)




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.17
Ways of giving evidence of a visa


  2.17. (1) For the purposes of subsection 71 (1) of the Act (which deals with
giving evidence of the grant of a visa), evidence of a visa that has been
granted to a non-citizen may be given:
  (a) in the way (if any) specified in the relevant Part of Schedule 2 for a
visa of that subclass; or
  (b) if the relevant Part of Schedule 2 does not specify a way of giving
evidence-by:
    (i) a label that is affixed to the non-citizen's passport by an
officer; or
    (ii) an imprint that is stamped in the non-citizen's passport by an
officer; or
    (iii) a document that is given to the non-citizen by an officer.

  (2) Evidence of the grant of a substantive visa (other than a transitional
visa) that is given by means of a visa label must include:
  (a) a statement of the period for which the visa is in effect; and
  (b) a statement of the class and the subclass to which the visa belongs;
and
  (c) if the visa allows the holder to travel to and enter Australia-a
statement of that fact.

  (3) In a statement for the purposes of paragraph (2) (b):
  (a) the class to which a visa belongs may be identified by the 2-letter code
specified in the heading of the relevant Part of Schedule 1; and
  (b) the subclass to which a visa belongs may be identified by the 3-digit
code of the relevant Part of Schedule 2.

  (4) Every document of the kind referred to in subparagraph (1) (b) (iii)
must be uniquely identified (for example, by a distinctive number).

  (5) If the Minister has given to a non-citizen to whom a visa has been
granted a written statement of the conditions (if any) to which the grant of
the visa is subject, it is not necessary for the evidence of the visa to set
out those conditions.

  (6) If evidence of the grant of a visa (other than a visa of a class
referred to in regulation 2.18) to a non-citizen has been given to the
non-citizen, and then lost or destroyed, replacement evidence:
  (a) may be given to the non-citizen in the way referred to in paragraph (1)
        (a) or any of the ways set out in paragraph (1) (b); and
  (b) must include:
    (i) a statement of the period for which the visa is in effect; and
    (ii) a statement of the class and the subclass to which the visa
belongs; and
    (iii) if the evidence is in the form referred to in subparagraph (1)
        (b) (i) and the visa allows the holder to travel to and enter Australia-a
statement of that fact.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.18
Re-evidencing of resident return visas


  2.18. (1) If:
  (a) evidence of a resident return visa has been given in a passport; and
  (b) either:
    (i) the evidence, or the passport, has been damaged, defaced, lost,
stolen or destroyed, or otherwise cannot, for good reason, be presented for
travel purposes; or
    (ii) the passport has expired, or has been cancelled, or is no longer
applicable to that person;
the person to whom the visa was granted may apply to the Minister for evidence
of the visa to be given to the person in a passport of that person.

  (2) An application must be in accordance with approved form 786.

  (3) The fee payable on an application is:
  (a) if the application is made in Australia-$50; or
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia-$60.

  (4) In this regulation, "resident return visa" means:
  (a) a Return (Residence) (Class BB) visa; or
  (b) a Resident Return (Temporary) (Class TP) visa; or
  (c) a Group 1.4 (resident return (permanent entry) or class 159 (resident
return (F)) visa granted under the Migration (1993) Regulations that is
continued in force under the Migration Reform (Transitional Provisions)
Regulations as a transitional (temporary) or transitional (permanent) visa, as
the case requires; or
  (d) a visa of one of the following classes granted under the Migration
(1989) Regulations:
    (i) return visa, class A (code number 154);
    (ii) return visa, class B (code number 155);
    (iii) return visa, class C (code number 156);
    (iv) return visa, class D (code number 157);
    (v) return visa, class E (code number 158);
    (vi) return visa, class F (code number 159);
that is continued in force under the Migration Reform (Transitional
Provisions) Regulations as a transitional (temporary) or transitional
        (permanent) visa, as the case requires; or
  (e) a transitional (permanent) visa that is taken to have been granted under
regulation 8 of the Migration Reform (Transitional Provisions) Regulations.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.19
Evidence of visa need not be given in certain cases


  2.19. No evidence of the grant of a visa need be given:
  (a) if the relevant Part of Schedule 2 so provides; or
  (b) if the relevant Part of Schedule 2 requires the evidence to be placed in
a passport, and the holder of the visa:
    (i) does not produce a passport to an officer; or
    (ii) produces to an officer a document that the Minister has
directed, under subsection 71 (3) of the Act, is not to be taken to be a
passport for the purposes of the clause of Schedule 2 under which evidence is
to be given of the visa;
until the holder produces a passport to an officer.
(NOTE: Under subsection 71 (3) of the Act, the Minister may declare that a
specified document is not to be taken to be a passport for the purposes of a
provision of the Regulations that provides that evidence of a visa may be
given by endorsing a valid passport or other valid travel document.)




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.20
Eligible non-citizen (Act, s. 72)


  2.20. (1) For the purposes of the definition of "eligible non-citizen" in
section 72 of the Act (which deals with persons eligible to be granted a
bridging visa), the classes of persons described in subregulation (2) to (5)
are prescribed.

  (2) This subregulation applies to a non-citizen who, before 1 September
1994:
  (a) was in custody under Division 4B of Part 2 of the Act as in force
immediately before 1 September 1994; and
  (b) was released from custody on expiry of a period referred to in
subsection 54Q (1) or (2) of that Act (which deals with the release of
designated persons from custody); and
  (c) has not departed Australia since being released from custody; and
  (d) has not subsequently been granted a visa or entry permit.

  (3) This subregulation applies to a non-citizen:
  (a) who is, or has been, in immigration detention under Division 6 of Part 2
of the Act (which deals with the immigration detention of designated persons);
and
  (b) in respect of whom the period mentioned in subsection 182 (1) or (2) of
the Act expires on or after 1  September 1994; from the day 2 working days
before the expiry of the period mentioned in whichever of those subsections
applies to the non-citizen.

  (4) This subregulation applies to a non-citizen:
  (a) who is:
    (i) in immigration detention under Division 6 of Part 2 of the Act; and
    (ii) the spouse of an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen and the Minister is satisfied that
the relationship is genuine and continuing; and
    (iii) nominated by the Australian citizen, Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen referred to in subparagraph (ii); or
  (b) who is a member of the family unit of a person referred to in paragraph
        (a).

  (5) This subregulation applies to a non-citizen:
  (a) who is in immigration detention under Division 6 of Part 2 of the Act;
and
  (b) who has not turned 18; and
  (c) in respect of whom a child welfare authority of a State or Territory has
certified that release from detention is in the best interests of the
non-citizen; and
  (d) in respect of whom the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) arrangements have been made between the non-citizen and an
Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand
citizen for the care and welfare of the non-citizen; and
    (ii) those arrangements are in the best interests of the non-citizen;
and
    (iii) the grant of a visa to the non-citizen would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any person who has, or may reasonably be expected to
have, custody or guardianship of, or access to, the non-citizen.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.21
Most beneficial bridging visas (Act, s. 68 (4) (b) (ii))


  2.21. (1) For the purposes of subparagraph 68 (4) (b) (ii) of the Act (which
deals with the order in which bridging visas are reactivated), if a
non-citizen holds more than 1 bridging visa, the bridging visa that is the
most beneficial is to be determined as set out in this regulation.

  (2) The order of classes from most beneficial to least beneficial is:
  (a) Bridging B visa (Class WB);
  (b) Bridging A visa (Class WA);
  (c) Bridging C visa (Class WC);
  (d) Bridging D visa (Class WD);
  (e) Bridging E visa (Class WE).

  (3) A bridging visa of Class WA, WB or WC that confers an unlimited right to
work is taken to be more beneficial than another bridging visa of the same
class that confers a limited right to work, and a bridging visa of one of
those classes that confers a limited right to work is taken to be more
beneficial than one of the same class that confers no right to work.

  (4) A bridging visa of Class WA, WB or WC is taken to be more beneficial
than another bridging visa of the same class that is subject to the same work
conditions if the first-mentioned visa was granted before the second-mentioned
visa.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.22
Invalid application for substantive visa


  2.22. A non-citizen is taken to have applied for a Bridging D (Class WD)
visa if:
  (a) the non-citizen is in Australia but is not in immigration detention;
and
  (b) he or she applies for a substantive visa of a class that may be granted
in Australia; and;
  (c) the application:
    (i) is given to the Minister in a way other than by personal attendance
at an office of Immigration; and
    (ii) is invalid as an application for a substantive visa of that class.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.23
Further application for bridging visa (Act, s. 74)


  2.23. For the purposes of subsection 74 (2) of the Act (which deals with a
further application for a bridging visa), the prescribed circumstances are
that the Minister is satisfied that, although the non-citizen has not made a
further application for a Bridging E visa (Class WE) after being refused a
visa of that class, the non-citizen now satisfies the criteria for the grant
of a visa of that class.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.24
Eligible non-citizen in immigration detention (Act, s. 75)


  2.24. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 75 (1) (a) (which deals with the
class of bridging visa that may be granted to a non-citizen in immigration
detention), the prescribed class of bridging visa is bridging E (Class WE).

  (2) For the purposes of paragraph 75 (1) (b) of the Act (which deals with
the time in which the Minister must make a decision), the prescribed period is
2 working days.
(NOTE: The prescribed conditions for the purposes of section 75 are set out in
clause 050.612 in Schedule 2.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.25
Grant of bridging visa E without application


  2.25. If:
  (a) a non-citizen:
    (i) is incapable, by reason of total or partial loss of mental
function, of making an application; or
    (ii) is illiterate; or
    (iii) is below the age of majority; or
    (iv) has not sufficient command of English to permit him or her to make
a valid application; or
    (v) is in criminal detention; or
    (vi) refuses to make a valid application; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the non-citizen meets the criteria for a
Class WE visa;
then, despite anything in Schedule 2, the Minister may grant the non-citizen a
Bridging visa Class WE.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.26
Prescribed qualifications and prescribed number of points


  2.26. (1) For the purposes of subsection 93 (1) of the Act (which deals with
determination of an applicant's points score):
  (a) each qualification specified in column 2 of an item in Part 1, 2, 4, 5,
6, or 7 of Schedule 6 is prescribed as a qualification in relation to an
applicant for a Subclass 105 (Concessional Family) visa; and
  (b) each qualification specified in column 2 of an item in Part 1, 2, or 3
of Schedule 6 is prescribed as a qualification in relation to an applicant for
a Subclass 126 (Independent) visa.

  (2) In relation to a prescribed qualification specified in Column 2 of an
item in Schedule 6, the number of points specified in Column 3 of that item is
prescribed.

  (3) For the purposes of subsection 93 (1) of the Act (which deals with
determination of an applicant's points score), the Minister:
  (a) is not to give an applicant a prescribed number of points for more than
one prescribed qualification in each Part of Schedule 6; and
  (b) is to give the applicant only the number of points applicable to the
prescribed qualification that meets the applicant's circumstances and for
which the prescribed number of points is the highest for any such prescribed
qualification; and
  (c) is to deduct 10 points from the total number of points otherwise
obtained by an applicant if the usual occupation of the applicant is that of
medical practitioner (including specialist medical practitioner).

  (4) If:
  (a) an applicant cannot provide the evidence that is required by an item in
Part 3 of Schedule 6; and
  (b) the Minister determines that it is not reasonably practicable for the
applicant to sit for an ACCESS test or an IELTS test;
the Minister may determine that the applicant has a level of English
proficiency equivalent to that mentioned in an item in that Part.

  (5) In Part 1 of Schedule 6:
  "associate diploma" means:
  (a) a formal educational qualification awarded by an Australian educational
institution as an associate diploma for which:
    (i) the entry level to the course leading to the qualification is
satisfactory completion of year 12 in the Australian school system or of
equivalent schooling; and
    (ii) 2 years of full-time study, or the equivalent period of part-time
study, is required; or
  (b) a formal educational qualification that is of an equivalent standard
awarded by an educational institution outside Australia;
  "certificate or advanced certificate" means:
  (a) a formal educational qualification awarded by an Australian educational
institution as a certificate or advanced certificate for which:
    (i) in the case of a qualification that is an advanced certificate-the
entry level to the course leading to the qualification is completion of year
10 in the Australian school system or of equivalent schooling; and
    (ii) in any case-for which 1 year of full-time study, or the equivalent
period of part-time study, is required; or
  (b) a formal educational qualification that is of an equivalent standard
awarded by an educational institution outside Australia;
  "degree" means:
  (a) a formal educational qualification awarded by an Australian educational
institution as a degree or a postgraduate diploma for which:
    (i) the entry level to the course leading to the qualification is:
      (A) in the case of a bachelor's degree-satisfactory completion of
year 12 in the Australian school system or of equivalent schooling; and
      (B) in the case of a master's degree-satisfactory completion of a
bachelor's degree awarded at an Australian tertiary educational institution or
of an equivalent award; and
      (C) in the case of a doctoral degree-satisfactory completion of a
bachelor's degree awarded with honours, or a master's degree, at an Australian
tertiary educational institution or of an equivalent award; and
      (D) in the case of a postgraduate diploma-satisfactory completion of
a bachelor's degree or diploma awarded at an Australian tertiary educational
institution or of an equivalent award; and
    (ii) in the case of a bachelor's degree, not less than 3 years of
full-time study, or the equivalent period of part-time study, is required; or
  (b) a formal educational qualification that is of an equivalent standard
awarded by an educational institution outside Australia;
  "diploma" means:
  (a) a formal educational qualification awarded by an Australian educational
institution as a diploma for which:
    (i) the entry level to the course leading to the qualification is
satisfactory completion of year 12 in the Australian school system or of
equivalent schooling; and
    (ii) 3 years of full-time study, or the equivalent period of part-time
study, is required; or
  (b) a formal educational qualification that is of an equivalent standard
awarded by an educational institution outside Australia;
  "professional-equivalent occupation" means an occupation specified by
Gazette Notice as a professional-equivalent occupation;
  "priority occupation" means an occupation specified by Gazette Notice as a
priority occupation;
  "relevant Australian authority" means:
  (a) NOOSR, or any body authorised in writing by NOOSR to assess educational
qualifications or work experience on behalf of NOOSR; or
  (b) the Department of Industrial Relations; or
  (c) if the circumstances of a case preclude an authority referred to in
paragraph (a) or (b) from making an assessment, the Minister;
  "technical-equivalent occupation" means an occupation specified by Gazette
Notice as a  technical-equivalent occupation;
  "trade certificate" means:
  (a) an Australian trade qualification obtained as a result of the completion
of 4 years of an indentured apprenticeship that involves:
    (i) part-time formal training at a technical college or a college of
technical and further education; and
    (ii) employment within the meaning of:
      (A) an industrial award under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State
or Territory; or
      (B) a law of a State or Territory dealing with commercial or
industrial training; or
  (b) a qualification obtained outside Australia that is of an equivalent
standard;
  "usual occupation" means an occupation that the applicant has engaged in for
gain or reward for a continuous period of at least 6 months during the period
of 2 years immediately preceding the relevant application for a visa.

  (6) In Part 4 of Schedule 6:
  (a) a reference to adoption is a reference to an adoption occurring before
the person adopted turned 18; and
  (b) a reference to a step-relationship is a reference to a step-relationship
where the applicant and the relevant step-relative of the applicant:
    (i) have been members of the same family unit for a reasonable period;
and
    (ii) are members of the same family unit at the time of the relevant
application.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.27
Qualification-eligibility of spouse


  2.27. If:
  (a) an applicant to whom regulation 2.26 applies does not receive the
qualifying score under that regulation; and
  (b) the spouse of the applicant is an applicant for a visa of the same
class;
the applicant is taken to have received the qualifying score if the sum of:
  (c) the points which the spouse could receive under Parts 1 and 2 of
Schedule 6; and
  (d) the points which the first-mentioned applicant receives under Parts 4,
5, 6 and 7 of Schedule 6;
is equal to, or exceeds, the qualifying score.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.28
Notice of putting application aside


  2.28. (1) If the Minister puts an application aside under paragraph 94 (3)
        (a) of the Act, he or she must notify the applicant in writing that he or she
has done so.

  (2) A notification under subregulation (1) must set out:
  (a) the decision of the Minister; and
  (b) the reason for the decision; and
  (c) that the decision can be reviewed; and
  (d) the time in which an application for review may be made; and
  (e) who can apply for the review; and
  (f) where the application for review can be made.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.29
Interpretation-Schedule 7


  2.29. In Schedule 7:
  (a) a reference to an applicant for a Subclass 127 visa is a reference to an
applicant for a Business Skills (Migrant) (Class AD) visa who:
    (i) is a person of the kind referred to in clause 127.211 of Schedule
2; and
    (ii) has not submitted a notification of the kind referred to in
subclause 129.215 (2) of Schedule 2 from the appropriate regional authority;
  (b) a reference to an applicant for a Subclass 128 visa is a reference to an
applicant for a visa of that class who:
    (i) is a person of the kind referred to in clause 128.212 of Schedule
2; and
    (ii) has not submitted a notification of the kind referred to in
subclause 130.213 (2) of Schedule 2 from the appropriate regional authority;
  (c) a reference to an applicant for a Subclass 129 visa is a reference to an
applicant for a Business Skills (Migrant) (Class AD) visa who:
    (i) is a person of the kind referred to in clause 129.211 of Schedule
2; and
    (ii) has submitted a notification of the kind referred to in subclause
129.215 (2) of Schedule 2 from the appropriate regional authority;
  (d) a reference to an applicant for a Subclass 130 visa is a reference to an
applicant for a visa of that class who:
    (i) is a person of the kind referred to in clause 130.212 of Schedule
2; and
    (ii) has submitted a notification of the kind referred to in subclause
130.213 (2) of Schedule 2 from the appropriate regional authority.






1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.30
Interpretation


  2.30. In this Subdivision:
  "assurance of support" means:
  (a) an assurance of support given under the Migration (1989) Regulations,
the Migration (1993) Regulations or these Regulations in relation to an
application lodged before 20 December 1991; or
  (b) a maintenance guarantee that:
    (i) was given on or before 18 December 1989 under regulations that were
in force under the Act or under any of the Acts repealed by the Act; and
    (ii) is expressed, or otherwise purports, to have effect after 19
December 1991.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.31
Form of certain assurances of support


  2.31. An assurance of support given under this Subdivision must be in the
form approved by the Minister.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.32
Duration of assurances of support


  2.32. An assurance of support that:
  (a) was given under the Migration (1989) Regulations before 20 December 1991
and, at the end of 19 December 1991, had been in force for less than 2 years;
or
  (b) was given under Division 1 of Part 6 of the Migration (1989) Regulations
on or after 20 December 1991; or
  (c) was given under Division 1 of Part 5 of the Migration (1993)
Regulations; or
  (d) is given under this Subdivision; ceases to have effect at the end of 2
years after:
  (e) the day when the applicant enters Australia; or
  (f) the grant of the relevant visa; or
  (g) if he or she is granted an entry permit before 1 September 1994, the
grant of that entry permit; whichever happens latest.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.33
Effect of assurance of support


  2.33. If, while an assurance of support has effect after 19 December 1991 in
respect of a person, that person has received support in the form of:
  (a) a job search allowance payable under Part 2.11 of the Social Security
Act 1991; or
  (b) a newstart allowance payable under Part 2.12 of that Act; or
  (c) a special benefit payable under Part 2.15 of that Act;
an amount equal to the value of the support provided (less any amount paid in
respect of the support by or on behalf of that person to the Commonwealth) is
a debt due and payable to the Commonwealth by the person who gave the
assurance, and may be recovered by action in a Court of competent
jurisdiction.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.34
Earlier liabilities not affected


  2.34. Nothing in this Subdivision affects any liability incurred under, or
in respect of, an assurance of support before 20 December 1991.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.35
Interpretation


  2.35. In this Subdivision:
  "assurance of support" means an assurance of support that is given in
relation to an application lodged after 19 December 1991;
  "required assurance" means an assurance of support that is an unconditional
requirement prescribed in Schedule 2 for the grant of a visa;
  "relevant visa", in relation to an assurance of support, means:
  (a) the visa for the grant of which the giving of the assurance of support
was required; or
  (b) the entry permit or entry visa for the grant of which under the
Migration (1989) Regulations or the Migration (1993) Regulations the giving of
the assurance of support was required; or
  (c) the entry permit the grant of which on entry under the Migration (1989)
Regulations or the Migration (1993) Regulations was a consequence of the grant
of a travel-only visa for the grant of which the giving of the assurance of
support was required.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.36
Form and duration of assurance of support


  2.36. (1) An assurance of support:
  (a) must be on the approved form; and
  (b) has effect in respect of a person for the period of 2 years beginning on
the day when that person enters Australia or is granted the relevant visa,
whichever happens later.

  (2) A required assurance is taken not to have been given unless the bond (if
any) required by regulation 2.39 in relation to it has been lodged.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.37
Persons in respect of whom assurance of support may be given


  2.37. (1) Subject to subregulation (2), a person must not give assurances of
support having effect at the same time in respect of more than 2 persons.

  (2) A person does not count for the purposes of subregulation (1) if that
person:
  (a) has not turned 18; and
  (b) is included in an assurance of support given in respect of another
person.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.38
Liability of person giving assurance of support


  2.38. (1) If a person receives a payment in the form of:
  (a) a job search allowance payable under Part 2.11 of the Social Security
Act 1991; or
  (b) a newstart allowance payable under Part 2.12 of that Act; or
  (c) a special benefit payable under Part 2.15 of that Act;
and an assurance of support has effect in respect of the person when he or she
receives the payment, the person who gave the assurance is liable, subject to
this regulation, to pay to the Commonwealth the amount of the payment.

  (2) A person is not liable to pay an amount that would otherwise be payable
under subregulation (1) in respect of a required assurance until the
Commonwealth has taken all reasonable steps to enforce the bond lodged in
respect of the assurance.

  (3) An amount payable under subregulation (1) is reduced by:
  (a) any amount obtained by the Commonwealth under the bond that has not been
applied to reduce a person's liability to the Commonwealth; and
  (b) any amount paid to the Commonwealth in respect of the payment.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.39
Bond (required assurances)


  2.39. (1) A person who gives a required assurance in respect of an applicant
for a visa who has turned 18 must lodge with the Minister a bond in accordance
with this regulation.

  (2) The bond must be lodged before a decision is made on the application to
which the required assurance relates.

  (3) The bond must be in a form approved by the Minister that secures the
payment to the Commonwealth, on demand, of any amount (up to the amount of the
bond) due to the Commonwealth under regulation 2.38 in respect of:
  (a) the applicant; and
  (b) if the assurance has effect also in relation to a person who has not
turned 18, that person.

  (4) The amount of a bond is:
  (a) unless paragraph (b) applies-$3,500; or
  (b) if the application to which the assurance relates is dependent on the
holding by, or grant to, another person of a visa of the same class as that
sought in the application-$1,500.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.40
Persons having a prescribed status-special purpose visas (Act, s. 33 (2) (a))


(Persons who hold prescribed status)
  2.40. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 33 (2) (a) of the Act (which deals
with persons who are taken to have been granted special purpose visas), and
subject to this regulation, each non-citizen who is included in one of the
following classes of person has a prescribed status:
  (a) members of the Royal Family;
  (b) members of the Royal party;
  (c) guests of Government;
  (d) SOFA forces members;
  (e) SOFA forces civilian component members;
  (f) Asia-Pacific forces members;
  (g) Commonwealth forces members;
  (h) foreign armed forces dependants;
  (j) foreign naval forces members;
  (k) members of the crew of non-military ships;
  (l) airline positioning crew members;
  (m) airline crew members;
  (n) transit passengers;
  (p) persons visiting Macquarie Island;
  (q) children born in Australia:
    (i) of a mother who at the time of the birth holds a special purpose
visa, if only the mother is in Australia at that time; or
    (ii) to parents both of whom, at the time of the birth, hold special
purpose visas, if at that time both parents are in Australia.
(NOTE: the terms used in paragraphs (1) (a) to (n) are defined in regulation
1.03.)

(Armed forces members)
  (2) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (d),
        (e), (f), (g) or (j) has a prescribed status only while he or she is not
absent without leave.

(Armed forces dependants)
  (3) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (h)
has a prescribed status only while the person of whom he or she is a spouse,
or on whom he or she is dependent, is not absent without leave.

(Persons must not work in Australia)
  (4) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (d),
        (e), (f), (g), (j), (k), (l) or (m) has a prescribed status only while he or
she does not perform work in Australia (other than work of a kind that he or
she normally performs during the course of his or her duties as a person of a
kind referred to in the relevant paragraph).

(Foreign naval forces members)
  (5) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (j)
has a prescribed status if and only if the vessel on which he or she enters
the migration zone has the prior approval of the Australian government to do
so.

(Crew on visiting non-military ships)
  (6) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (k)
has a prescribed status if and only if the ship of whose crew he or she is a
member:
  (a) enters Australia at:
    (i) a proclaimed port; or
    (ii) a port other than a proclaimed port, if permission for it to do so
has been given in advance by the Australian Customs Service under section 58
of the Customs Act 1901;
  (b) will depart Australia to a place outside Australia during the course of
the voyage.

(Crew members who sign off ships)
  (7) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (k)
who has signed off the ship of whose crew he or she is a member has a
prescribed status:
  (a) if and only if the master, owner, agent or charterer of the ship
provides a letter of guarantee that the person will leave Australia within 30
days after signing off; and
  (b) only for the shorter of the following periods:
    (i) the period specified in the letter of guarantee as the period
within which he or she will leave Australia;
    (ii) 30 days after he or she signs off the ship..

(Crew members of imported ships)
  (8) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (k)
who is a member of the crew of a ship being imported into Australia has a
prescribed status for a period of 5 working days after an agreement is made
between the person and the ship's master under section 46 of the Navigation
Act 1912.

(Positioning aircrew members)
  (9) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (l)
has a prescribed status for the period of 5 working days beginning when he or
she disembarks from the aircraft on which he or she travelled to Australia if
and only if he or she:
  (a) holds a passport that is in force; and
  (b) carries a letter from his or her employer certifying aircrew status and
setting out the purpose of the person's travel to Australia and the
arrangements for the person to leave Australia.

(Operational aircrew members)
  (10) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (m)
has a prescribed status for the period of 5 working days beginning when he or
she disembarks from the aircraft on which he or she travelled to Australia if
and only if he or she:
  (a) holds a current identity document as an air crew member issued by the
air carrier by which he or she is employed; and
  (b) is included in a list of the crew (being a list that gives the name,
date of birth and sex of each crew member) that is signed on behalf of the air
carrier and given to an officer.

(Transit passengers)
  (11) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (n)
has a prescribed status only while he or she remains in the airport transit
lounge.

(Macquarie Island visitors)
  (12) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (p)
has a prescribed status:
  (a) only while he or she remains on Macquarie Island; and
  (b) only if the Secretary of the Department of the Environment and Land
Management of the State of Tasmania has granted written permission in advance
for the person to visit that Island.

(Children born in Australia)
  (13) A person included in a class of persons specified in paragraph (1) (q)
has a prescribed status:
  (a) in the case of a child referred to in subparagraph (1) (q) (i)-until the
child's mother ceases to have a prescribed status; or
  (b) in the case of a child referred to in subparagraph (1) (q) (ii)-until
whichever of the child's parents last ceases to have a prescribed status
ceases to have that status.




(NOTE: The obligations of a visa holder under Subdivision C of Division 3 of
Part 2 of the Act are: to supply correct information on his or her application
form (s. 101), including answers on passenger cards (s. 102); not to give
bogus documents (s. 103); to notify changes in circumstances (s. 104); and, if
incorrect information is given, to correct it (s. 105). The obligation is not
affected by other sources of information being available (s. 106). If the
Minister gives a visa holder a notice under s. 107 (1) stating that there may
have been non-compliance and asking the visa holder for a response, the
answers must be correct (s. 107 (2)).)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.41
Whether to cancel visa-incorrect information or bogus document (Act, s. 109
(1) (c))


  2.41. For the purposes of paragraph 109 (1) (c) of the Act, the following
circumstances are prescribed.
  (a) the correct information;
  (b) the content of the genuine document (if any);
  (c) the likely effect on a decision to grant a visa or immigration clear the
visa holder of the correct information or the genuine document;
  (d) the circumstances in which the non-compliance occurred;
  (e) the present circumstances of the visa holder;
  (f) the subsequent behaviour of the visa holder concerning his or her
obligations under Subdivision C of Division 3 of Part 2 of the Act;
  (g) any other instances of non-compliance by the visa holder known to the
Minister;
  (h) the time that has elapsed since the non-compliance;
  (j) any breaches of the law since the non-compliance and the seriousness of
those breaches;
  (k) any contribution made by the holder to the community.
(NOTE: Under s. 109 of the Act, the Minister may cancel a visa if there was
non-compliance by the holder of a kind set out in Subdivision C of Division 3
of Part 2 of the Act. The Minister is to have regard to the prescribed
circumstances in considering whether to cancel the visa.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.42
Notice of decision to cancel visa under s. 109


  2.42. (1) If the Minister cancels a visa under section 109 of the Act, the
Minister must notify the former holder of the visa in writing that the visa
has been cancelled.

  (2) A notification under subregulation (1) must set out the ground for the
cancellation.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.43
Grounds for cancellation of visa (Act, s. 116)


  2.43. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 116 (1) (g) of the Act (which deals
with circumstances in which the Minister may cancel a visa), the grounds
prescribed are:
  (a) that the Foreign Minister has determined that the holder of the visa is
a person whose presence in Australia is, or would be, prejudicial to relations
between Australia and a foreign country;
  (b) that the holder of the visa has been assessed by the competent
Australian authorities to be directly or indirectly a risk to Australian
national security;
  (c) in the case of a bridging visa held by a person who applied for a
substantive visa-that the application for the substantive visa has been
determined to be invalid;
  (d) in the case of a visa granted before 1 September 1994 that:
    (i) was continued in force on and after 1 September 1994 as a
Transitional (Temporary) visa under the Migration Reform (Transitional
Provisions) Regulations; and
    (ii) allowed multiple entries to Australia;
 at some time before 1 September 1994 the holder exceeded the period of stay
in Australia permitted by the visa.

  (2) For the purposes of subsection 116 (3) of the Act (which deals with the
circumstances in which the Minister must cancel a visa), the circumstance is
prescribed in relation to a visa, namely that the Minister may cancel the visa
on the grounds set out in paragraph (1) (a), (b) or (c).


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.44
Invitation to comment-response


  2.44. (1) For the purposes of subsection 121 (2) of the Act (which deals
with the time in which a holder must give comments, other than at interview),
the periods set out in subregulation (2) are prescribed.

  (2) The periods referred to in subregulation (1) begin when the visa holder
is notified under subsection 119 (2), or receives an invitation under
subsection 120 (2), as the case requires, and are:
  (a) if the visa holder is in Australia-5 working days;
  (b) if the visa holder is outside Australia:
    (i) where the cancellation of his or her visa is being considered in
Australia-28 days; or
    (ii) where the cancellation of his or her visa is being considered at a
diplomatic, consular or migration office maintained by or on behalf of the
Commonwealth in the country in which the visa holder is present-5 working
days; or
    (iii) where the cancellation of his or her visa is being considered at
a diplomatic, consular or migration office maintained by or on behalf of the
Commonwealth in another country than the country in which the visa holder is
present-28 days.

  (3) For the purposes of subsection 121 (4) of the Act (which deals with
extension of time to give comments), 5 working days is prescribed.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.45
Notification of decision (Act, s. 127)


  2.45. For the purposes of section 127 of the Act (which deals with
notification of decisions to cancel a visa), the way of notifying the visa
holder of a decision is in writing.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.46
Time to respond to notice of cancellation (Act, s. 129 (1) (c))


  2.46. For the purposes of paragraph 129 (1) (c) of the Act (which deals with
response to cancellation of a visa), the following periods are prescribed:
  (a) if the former holder of the visa is outside Australia when he or she is
given a notice of the cancellation-28 days;
  (b) if he or she is in Australia when he or she is given notice of the
cancellation:
    (i) if he or she wishes the cancellation to be reconsidered while he or
she is in Australia-5 minutes; or
    (ii) if he or she wishes the cancellation to be reconsidered while he
or she is outside Australia, and he or she departs Australia as soon as
possible after being given a notice of the cancellation-28 days. beginning
when the former holder of the visa is given a notice of the cancellation.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.47
Notice of cancellation (Act, s. 129)


  2.47. For the purposes of subsection 129 (2) of the Act (which deals with
giving notice of cancellation of a visa), the way of giving the former holder
of the visa a notice of the cancellation is in writing.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.48
Revocation of cancellation (Act, s. 131 (2))


  2.48. For the purposes of subsection 131 (2) of the Act (which deals with
the circumstances in which cancellation of a visa must not be revoked), the
circumstance is that the visa was cancelled on a ground prescribed under
subsection 116 (3).
(NOTE: The grounds prescribed under subsection 116 (3) are grounds on which a
visa must be cancelled. For those grounds, see subregulation 2.39 (2).)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 2.49
Notice of decision whether to revoke cancellation (Act, s. 132)


  2.49. For the purposes of subsection 132 of the Act (which deals with
notification of a decision about cancellation of a visa), the way of notifying
the visa holder of a decision is in writing.






1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.01
Provision of information (general requirement)


  3.01. (1) In this regulation:
  "officer" includes a clearance officer.

  (2) This regulation applies to:
  (a) a person who is an overseas passenger:
    (i) arriving on board a vessel at a port in Australia in the course of,
or at the conclusion of, an overseas flight or an overseas voyage; or
    (ii) leaving Australia on board a vessel bound for or calling at a
place outside Australia; and
  (b) a person on board an aircraft arriving at, or departing from, an airport
in Australia, being an aircraft operated by an international air carrier;
other than:
  (c) a person included in a class of persons set out in an item in Part 1 of
Schedule 9, being an item in which the word "no" appears in column 4; and
  (d) a person who, under regulation 3.06, is not required to complete a
passenger card.

  (3) A person to whom this regulation applies must:
  (a) complete a passenger card:
    (i) in relation to the person and to any other person that person is in
charge of on the relevant flight or voyage; and
    (ii) in accordance with directions set out on the passenger card; and
  (b) give the completed passenger card to an officer.

  (4) An officer may require a person to whom this regulation applies to
provide to the officer information about that person in respect of any of the
following matters:
  (a) name;
  (b) date of birth and country of birth;
  (c) citizenship;
  (d) sex and marital status;
  (e) usual occupation;
  (f) passport number;
  (g) if the person is not:
    (i) an Australian citizen; or
    (ii) a person who is eligible for the grant of a Special Category visa
or a Permanent Resident of Norfolk Island visa; or
    (iii) a person who will on entry be taken to hold a special purpose
visa;
the number of the Australian visa held by the person;
  (h) flight number of aircraft or name of ship in relation to the relevant
flight or voyage;
  (i) country in which the person boarded, or intends to disembark from, the
aircraft or ship;
  (j) if the person is entering Australia-the intended address of the person
in Australia.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.02
Passenger card


  3.02. (1) A passenger card must include the following questions, or
substantially similar questions:
  (a) "Do you currently suffer from tuberculosis?";
  (b) "Have you any criminal conviction/s for which the sentence/s (whether
served or not) totalled 12 months imprisonment or more?";
  (c) "Have you ever been found guilty, or acquitted, of committing a crime
because you were of unsound mind?";
  (d) "Have you ever been deported, removed or excluded from any country
(including Australia)?";
  (e) "Do you owe $1,000 or more to the Commonwealth Government?";
  (f) "Please tick and answer only one of A, B or C:
          "I am:
          "A. Migrating permanently to Australia;
           Give:
                   Previous country of residence;
           B. A visitor or temporary entrant;
           Give:
           (1) Intended length of stay in Australia;
           (2) Main reason for coming to Australia (tick one only):
                  Convention/conference
                  Business
                  Visiting friends/relatives
                  Holiday
                  Employment
                  Education
                 Other
            (3) Country of residence;
           "C. Resident returning to Australia:
             "Give:
           (1) Time you have been away from Australia;
           (2) Country where you spent most time while abroad.".

  (2) The questions set out in subregulation (1):
  (a) may be printed on the passenger card in any order; and
  (b) may be numbered in any way.

  (3) A passenger card may include instructions for completing it, including
instructions that questions are to be answered by ticks or other symbols.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.03
Evidence of identity of arriving person etc. (Act, s. 166)


  3.03. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 166 (1) (b) of the Act (which deals
with information to be provided by a person entering Australia), the
information required to be given to a clearance officer is that set out in
regulation 3.02.
(NOTE: Under section 166, a person who enters Australia (other than a person
referred to in sections 168 and 169-broadly, persons who have left Australia
only for short periods without going to a foreign country, persons in
prescribed classes (see below) and allowed inhabitants of the Protected Zone)
must give evidence of their identity and provide certain information, and must
do so in a prescribed way.)

  (2) For the purposes of subsection 166 (2) of the Act (which deals with the
way in which a person entering Australia must give information), a person who
is required to comply with section 166 of the Act must:
  (a) in the case of an Australian citizen-give a clearance officer a
completed passenger card; and
  (b) in the case of a non-citizen who is taken to hold a special purpose
visa:
    (i) show a clearance officer evidence of the person's identity, as
specified in Part 1 of Schedule 9; and
    (ii) give the clearance officer a completed passenger card where
required by Part 1 of Schedule 9; and
  (c) in the case of a non-citizen who is eligible to hold a special category
visa:
    (i) show a clearance officer a New Zealand passport that is in force;
and
    (ii) give the clearance officer a completed passenger card; and
  (d) in the case of a non-citizen who has the right of permanent residence on
Norfolk Island:
    (i) show a clearance officer a passport that is in force and is
endorsed with an authority to reside indefinitely on Norfolk Island; and
    (ii) give the clearance officer a completed passenger card; and
  (e) in the case of a non-citizen other than a non-citizen referred to in
paragraph (b), (c) or (d):
    (i) show a clearance officer his or her passport and evidence of a
visa; and
    (ii) give the clearance officer a completed passenger card.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.04
Place and time for giving evidence (Act, s. 167)


  3.04. For the purposes of subsection 167 (2) of the Act (which deals with
the time and place at which a person who enters Australia must comply with
section 166):
  (a) the place at which a person who is required to comply with section 166
must do so is:
    (i) a regional or area office of Immigration; or
    (ii) at any place where there is a clearance officer, including a port;
and
  (b) the period within which the person must do so is 2 working days after he
or she enters Australia.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.05
Allowed inhabitants of the Protected Zone (Act, s. 168 (2))


  3.05. For the purposes of subsection 168 (2) of the Act (which deals with
compliance with section 166 by allowed inhabitants of the Protected Zone):
  (a) the place at which an allowed inhabitant of the Protected Zone who is
required to comply with section 166 must do so is:
    (i) a regional or area office of Immigration; or
    (ii) at any place where there is a clearance officer, including a port;
and
  (b) the period within which the inhabitant must do so is 5 working days
after he or she goes to a part of the migration zone outside the protected
area.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.06
Persons not required to comply with s. 166 of the Act (Act, s. 168 (3))


  3.06. For the purposes of subsection 168 (3) of the Act (which deals with
the classes of person not required to give information under section 166),
each class of person set out in Part 2 of Schedule 9 is prescribed.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.07
Persons taken not to leave Australia (Act, s. 80 (c))


  3.07. For the purposes of paragraph 80 (c) of the Act, the prescribed period
is 30 days.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.08
Offence-failure to complete a passenger card


  3.08. A person who is required by these Regulations to complete a passenger
card must not fail to do so.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.09
Evidence of identity-domestic travel on overseas vessels


  3.09. (1) In this regulation:
  "boarding pass" means a document that permits a person to board an aircraft,
given to the person by the operator of the aircraft;
  "officer" includes a clearance officer;
  "overseas vessel" has the meaning given by section 165 of the Act.
(NOTE: "Vessel" includes an aircraft: see s. 5 (1) of the Act.)

  (2) A person who travels, or appears to intend to travel, on an overseas
vessel from a port in Australia to another port in Australia without calling
at a port outside Australia may be required by an officer at either port or
both ports in Australia to provide evidence of his or her identity to the
officer by producing:
  (a) a passport issued to the person that is in the form in which it was
issued; or
  (b) a document of a kind mentioned in subregulation (3) that:
    (i) bears the signature or a photograph of the person, or both; and
    (ii) is in force.

  (3) The kinds of document referred to in paragraph (2) (b) are the
following:
  (a) an aviation security identity card issued by the operator of the
aircraft or by the operator of an airport in Australia;
  (b) a licence to drive a motor vehicle issued under a law of the
Commonwealth or of a State or Territory;
  (c) a card that identifies the person as:
    (i) an officer or employee of the Commonwealth or of a State or
Territory, or of a Commonwealth, State or Territory authority; or
    (ii) the holder of an office under the law of the Commonwealth or of a
State or Territory;
  (d) a document issued by the Commonwealth, or by a State or Territory, or by
a Commonwealth, State or Territory authority, that identifies the person as
being entitled to receive payments as a beneficiary from the government or
authority concerned;
  (e) a card issued by any of the following bodies:
    (i) Aerospace Technologies of Australia Pty Ltd;
    (ii) ANL Ltd;
    (iii) Telstra Corporation Limited;
    (iv) the Australian National Railways Commission;
    (v) the Australian Maritime Safety Authority;
    (vi) the Australian Postal Corporation;
    (vii) the Civil Aviation Authority;
    (viii) the Defence Housing Authority;
    (ix) the Pipeline Authority;
    (x) the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electricity Authority.

  (4) If a person to whom this regulation applies is boarding or disembarking
from an overseas vessel that is an aircraft, an officer may require the person
to show the officer the person's boarding pass.

  (5) An officer may require a person who is travelling with a person:
  (a) who has not turned 16 years of age; and
  (b) in respect of whom a document cannot be produced to the officer as
required;
to write on the boarding pass issued to the first-mentioned person the full
name of the second-mentioned person.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.10
Use of information


  3.10. (1) With the written consent of the Minister, use may be made of
information collected under this Part in respect of persons, being information
that:
  (a) is collected from passenger cards or passports, or contained in notified
data bases (or both), by an officer of any Department or authority of the
Commonwealth, or of a State or Territory; and
  (b) is concerned with any of the following matters, namely law enforcement,
national security, national intelligence, education, health, community
services, social welfare, employment, labour, taxation, statistics,
quarantine, customs, excise.

  (2) The consent of the Minister for the use of information concerned with a
matter specified in subregulation (1) may be given in respect of a particular
occasion or any number of occasions.

  (3) If:
  (a) the Commonwealth has entered into an agreement with another country in
relation to the provision of information concerning international movements of
air traffic and passengers on international flights; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the provision to that country of the
information specified in subregulation (4) would facilitate the handling of
aircraft or of passengers travelling to destinations outside Australia;
the Minister may cause that information to be provided to the immigration
authorities of that country.

  (4) The information mentioned in paragraph (3) (b) is the following
information in respect of passengers travelling to, or to and beyond, the
country referred to in that subregulation:
  (a) name;
  (b) date of birth;
  (c) citizenship;
  (d) passport number;
  (e) date of departure from Australia;
  (f) flight number;
  (g) place of intended disembarkation;
  (h) ultimate destination.

  (5) If the Commonwealth enters into an agreement of a kind referred to in
paragraph (3) (a):
  (a) the Minister must, as soon as is practicable, cause notice of the fact
to be published in the Gazette; and
  (b) information must not be made available under the agreement earlier than
the day after the day on which the notice is published.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.11
Production of deportee or removee


  3.11. (1) If a person has been placed on board a vessel for the purpose of:
  (a) deportation from Australia under an order made by the Minister under the
Act; or
  (b) removal from Australia;
an officer may require the master to produce the deportee or removee to the
officer at any time before the vessel's departure from its last port of call
in Australia.

  (2) The master must not, without reasonable excuse, fail to comply with a
requirement under subregulation (1).


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.12
Offences by master of vessel


  3.12. The master of a vessel must not:
  (a) refuse or neglect to afford all reasonable facilities to an officer for
the performance of the officer's duties; or
  (b) deliver to an officer, under these Regulations, a list or statement that
is incorrect in a material particular.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.13
Interpretation:


  3.13 In this Division:
  "civilian vessel" means a vessel other than a vessel of the regular armed
forces of a Government recognised by Australia;
  "master" includes owner, charterer, and agent in Australia.
(NOTE: "Vessel" includes an aircraft: see the Act, s. 5 (1).)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.14
Information about overseas passengers-inbound civilian vessel


  3.14. (1) If:
  (a) a civilian vessel arrives at a port in Australia (in this regulation
called "the relevant port"); and
  (b) the vessel carries overseas passengers;
the master must, on the request of an officer, give the officer, to the best
of the master's knowledge and belief, the particulars set out in subregulation
(2), (3) or (4), as the case requires.
(NOTE: The penalty for failing to do so is a fine of $100 or imprisonment for
3 months: see regulation 5.32.)

  (2) If the last port entered by the vessel before its arrival at the
relevant port was outside Australia, the particulars are:
  (a) each passenger's full name; and
  (b) each passenger's date of birth; and
  (c) the country of issue and number of each passenger's passport; and
  (d) the citizenship of each passenger; and
  (e) the intended address in Australia (if any) of each passenger; and
  (f) the place in Australia (if any) at which each passenger's journey in the
vessel ends.

  (3) If there are overseas passengers on the vessel whose journey is to end
at the relevant port, the particulars in respect of each of those passengers
are:
  (a) his or her full name; and
  (b) his or her date of birth; and
  (c) the country of issue and number of his or her passport; and
  (d) his or her citizenship; and
  (e) his or her intended address in Australia.

  (4) If:
  (a) there are passengers on the vessel who:
    (i) were on board the vessel when it left a place outside Australia;
and
    (ii) intend to travel in the vessel beyond Australia; and
  (b) the master has not previously been asked by an officer to give
particulars of those passengers;
the particulars of each of those passengers are:
  (c) his or her full name; and
  (d) his or her date of birth; and
  (e) the country of issue and number of his or her passport; and
  (f) his or her citizenship.

  (5) The master must, if asked to do so by an officer, give the officer a
specified number (not exceeding 6) of copies of a document containing
particulars given under this regulation.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.15
Medical certificate


  3.15. (1) If a list is given to an officer under subregulation 3.14 (2), the
medical officer of the vessel must also give the officer a certificate signed
by him or her that certifies that, in his or her opinion:
  (a) no passenger on the vessel; or
  (b) no passenger on the vessel other than a passenger named in the
certificate;
is suffering from:
  (c) tuberculosis, or any other communicable disease of a fatal or serious
nature that is a threat to public health in Australia; or
  (d) any other disease or condition that would be likely to endanger the
Australian community during the person's intended period of stay in Australia;
or
  (e) any disease or condition that, during the person's intended period of
stay in Australia:
    (i) would require significant care or treatment; or
    (ii) would require care or treatment, or both, involving the use of
community resources in short supply; or
    (iii) would prevent the person from pursuing an intended occupation in
Australia; or
    (iv) would result in the person becoming a significant charge on public
funds.

  (2) If a passenger is named in the certificate as suffering from a disease
or condition referred to in paragraph (1) (c), (d) or (e), the certificate
must also set out the disease or condition from which the passenger is
suffering.

  (3) If a vessel has no medical officer, the certificate must be signed and
given by the master to the best of his or her knowledge and belief.

  (4) If an officer has required the master of a vessel to provide copies of a
document under subregulation 3.14 (5), the medical officer or master must
provide the same number of copies of the certificate.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.16
Information about overseas passengers-outbound civilian vessel


  3.16. (1) If:
  (a) a civilian vessel leaves a port in Australia on an overseas voyage or an
overseas flight; and
  (b) the vessel carries overseas passengers:
    (i) who were on board the vessel when it left a place outside
Australia, and who intend to travel in the vessel beyond Australia; or
    (ii) who joined the vessel at that port;
the master of the vessel must give an officer a list setting out, to the best
of the master's knowledge and belief, the following particulars of each of
those passengers:
  (c) his or her full name;
  (d) his or her date of birth;
  (e) the country of issue and number of his or her passport;
  (f) his or her citizenship;
  (g) the place where his or her journey in the vessel ends.

  (2) The master must, if asked to do so by an officer, give the officer a
specified number (not exceeding 6) of copies of a document containing
particulars given under this regulation.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 3.17
Information about crew


  3.17. (1) The master of a civilian vessel that enters Australia must, at any
port of call in Australia, if so requested by an officer:
  (a) give the officer a list showing the number of members of the crew; and
showing, in respect of each member of the crew:
    (i) his or her full name; and
    (ii) his or her date of birth; and
    (iii) his or her citizenship; and
    (iv) the country of issue and number of his or her passport; and
  (b) if the vessel is a ship, produce to the officer the ship's articles.

  (2) The master of a civilian vessel that is a ship must, at the first port
of call in Australia of the ship, give an officer a list signed by the master
showing the name and citizenship of every person on board other than:
  (a) a passenger; or
  (b) a member of the crew whose name appears on the ship's articles as a
member of the crew for discharge at a port outside Australia.




(NOTE: This Division of Part 4 of the Regulations deals with review of visa
decisions. (Review of decisions relating to refugee status is dealt with in
Division 4.2.) It refers in many places to the definition of "Part 5
reviewable decision" in section 337 of the Act. Broadly, paragraphs (a) and
        (b) of that definition cover decisions relating to visas if the person is in
Australia. Paragraphs (c) and (d) cover decisions relating to refusal or
cancellation of bridging visas if the applicant or former holder is in
immigration detention because of that refusal or cancellation. Paragraphs (e),
        (f) and (g) cover decisions relating to visas that could not be granted in
Australia-paragraph (e) covering visas that require an applicant to be
nominated or sponsored by an Australian citizen or Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen or a body or organisation in
Australia; paragraph (f) covering visas that require the applicant to have
been an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident; and paragraph (g)
visas that require the applicant to have as a relative an Australian citizen
or Australian permanent resident and to have been intending to visit that
relative). Paragraph (h) covers decisions relating to points test assessed
scores.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.01
Interpretation


  4.01. Expressions used in this Part, other than "nominated" and "sponsored",
have the same respective meanings as in Part 5 of the Act.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.02
Application for internal review


  4.02. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 339 (1) (b) of the Act (which deals
with giving applications for review to the Secretary), a regional or area
office of Immigration is prescribed.

  (2) For those purposes, the period for giving an application to the
Secretary is:
  (a) in the case of an internally-reviewable decision of a kind mentioned in
paragraph (a) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision" in section 337
of the Act-28 days after the notification of the internally reviewable
decision; or
  (b) in the case of an internally-reviewable decision of the kind mentioned
in paragraph (e), (f), (g) or (h) of that definition-70 days after the date on
which the decision is notified to the person to whom the decision relates.

  (3) An application for internal review must set out:
  (a) the name and address of the applicant for review; and
  (b) a brief statement of the capacity in which the applicant applies for
review; and
  (c) details of the decision to which the application relates; and
  (d) if:
    (i) the application is made in relation to a decision refusing to grant
a visa or a decision relating to a points test assessed score; and
    (ii) the applicant for the review was not also the applicant for the
visa;
the name and address of the applicant for the visa.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.03
Combined applications for internal review


  4.03. (1) If:
  (a) 2 or more visa applicants have combined their primary applications in a
way permitted by Schedule 1 or regulation 2.07 in Australia; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of those visa
applicants are that visas not be granted;
the visa applicants referred to in paragraph (b) may combine their
applications for internal review of the Minister's decisions.

  (2) If:
  (a) a person has nominated or sponsored 2 or more members of a family unit
in respect of primary applications by them of a kind referred to in paragraph
        (e) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision" in section 337 of the
Act; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of the members of that
family unit are that visas not be granted;
the nominator or sponsor may combine his or her applications for internal
review of the Minister's decisions in respect of each of the members of the
family unit to whom the Minister refused to grant a visa.

  (3) If:
  (a) 2 or more visa applicants have combined their primary applications in a
way permitted by Schedule 1 for visas of a kind referred to in paragraph (f)
or (g) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision" in section 337 of the
Act; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of those visa
applicants are that visas not be granted;
the Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident who is a parent,
spouse, child, brother or sister of the visa applicants may combine his or her
applications for internal review of the Minister's decisions in respect of
each of those visa applicants to whom the Minister refused to grant a visa.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.04
Internal review-prescribed fee and waiver


  4.04. (1) Subject to this regulation, the prescribed fee on an application
for internal review of an internally reviewable decision is $200.

  (2) If a person combines 2 or more applications for internal review in
accordance with regulation 4.03, an application fee is payable in respect of
only 1 of those applications.

  (3) The Secretary may determine that the fee should not be paid in a
particular case if he or she is satisfied that payment of the fee has caused,
or is likely to cause, severe financial hardship to the review applicant.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.05
Refund of fee for internal review


  4.05. (1) The amount of a fee paid on an application for review of an
internally reviewable decision is to be refunded if:
  (a) the decision to which the review relates is set aside or varied by a
review authority; or
  (b) the review authority remits the matter to the original decision maker
for reconsideration; or
  (c) under subregulation 4.04 (3), the Secretary determines that the fee
should not be paid; or
  (d) the applicant is not entitled to apply for internal review; or
  (e) the decision to which the application relates is not subject to internal
review; or
  (f) the Minister has issued a conclusive certificate under subsection 338
(3) of the Act (which deals with the issue of conclusive certificates) in
relation to the decision to which the application relates.
(NOTE: The conclusive certificate certifies that review would be contrary to
the public interest.)

  (2) If an application for review of an internally reviewable decision is
withdrawn, the fee paid (if any) on the application is to be refunded if the
application is withdrawn because:
  (a) the death has occurred, since the visa application was made, of:
    (i) the applicant for the visa that was the subject of the review
application; or
    (ii) a member of that applicant's family unit; or
  (b) the applicant for the visa that was the subject of the review
application has been granted a visa of the class applied for otherwise than
because the Minister has reconsidered the primary application and the
applicant's score on the reconsideration is more than or equal to the
applicable pass mark.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.06
Review officer's power to give directions


  4.06. For the purposes of paragraph 341 (2) (c) of the Act (which deals with
a review officer's power to remit):
  (a) an application for a visa or entry permit made on or after 19 December
1989 is a prescribed matter; and
  (b) a permissible direction is that the applicant must be taken to have
satisfied a specified criterion for the visa or entry permit.
(NOTE: "prescribed matter": in this case, one that the review officer may
remit for reconsideration.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.07
Notification of decision of review officer


  4.07. (1) A review officer must notify an applicant of a decision:
  (a) by sending a notice of the decision to, or leaving a notice of the
decision at, the last address given to the Minister by the applicant under
section 53 of the Act (which deals with what an applicant must tell the
Minister); or
  (b) by handing a notice of the decision to the applicant or a person
specified by the applicant under subsection 53 (4) of the Act.

  (2) A notice in regard to a decision of the kind referred to in paragraph
        (h) of the "definition of Part 5 reviewable decision" in section 337 of the
Act must set out:
  (a) the decision of the review officer; and
  (b) the reason for the decision; and
  (c) that the decision can be reviewed; and
  (d) the time in which the application for review may be made; and
  (e) who can apply for the review; and
  (f) where the application for review can be made.

  (3) The review officer must notify the applicant not later than 10 days
after making the decision.
(NOTE: The content of the notice is set out in s. 343 of the Act.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.08
Response to invitation to give information or comments on internal review
of decision-prescribed periods


  4.08. (1) For the purposes of subsection 58 (2) of the Act (which deals with
invitations to make comments or give further information) as applied to the
review of a decision by section 342 of the Act (which applies the Code of
Procedure to review proceedings), and subject to subregulation (2), the
prescribed period for giving additional information or comments in response to
an invitation is:
  (a) in the case of a review application regarding a decision that was made
in Australia:
    (i) in the case of a review application regarding a decision concerning
a Long Stay (Visitor) (Class TN) or Short Stay (Visitor) (Class TR) visa-7
days after the applicant is given the invitation; or
    (ii) in any other case-28 days after the applicant is given the
invitation; or
  (b) in the case of a review application regarding a decision that was made
outside Australia:
    (i) if the information or comments are to be given by the review
applicant-28 days; or
    (ii) if the information or comments are to be given by the visa
applicant-28 days, or, if the Minister so decides in the circumstances of the
case, 70 days;
after the applicant is given the invitation.

  (2) Subregulation (1) does not apply to a request for information or
comments to be provided by a third party regarding the following matters:
  (a) the visa applicant's health;
  (b) the satisfaction by the visa applicant of public interest criteria;
  (c) the satisfaction of criteria relating to the visa applicant's capacity
to communicate in English;
  (d) assessment of the visa applicant's skills or qualifications.

  (3) For the purposes of paragraph 58 (3) (b) of the Act (dealing with the
period in which an interview must take place) as it applies to a review
application under section 342 of the Act, the prescribed period is:
  (a) in the case of a review application regarding a decision that was made
in Australia:
    (i) in the case of a review application regarding a decision concerning
a Long Stay (Visitor) (Class TN) or Short Stay (Visitor) (Class TR) visa-7
days after the applicant is given the invitation; or
    (ii) in any other case-28 days after the applicant is given the
invitation; or
  (b) in the case of a review application regarding a decision made outside
Australia:
    (i) if the information or comments are to be given by the review
applicant-28 days; or
    (ii) if the information or comments are to be given by the visa
applicant-28 days, or, if the Minister so decides in the circumstances of the
case,70 days;
after the applicant is given the invitation.

  (4) For the purposes of subsection 58 (4) of the Act (dealing with extending
the period to provide comments), the prescribed further period is:
  (a) in the case of a review application regarding a decision made in
Australia-7 days; or
  (b) in the case of a review application regarding a decision made outside
Australia-28 days.

  (5) For the purposes of paragraph 58 (5) (b) of the Act (dealing with
extending the period to attend for interview), the prescribed further period
is:
  (a) in the case of a review application regarding a decision made in
Australia-7 days; or
  (b) in the case of a review application regarding a decision made outside
Australia-28 days.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.09
IRT-reviewable decisions


  4.09. For the purposes of paragraphs 338 (2) (d) and 346 (1) (d) of the Act
(which deal with decisions that are not internally reviewable), the following
Part 5 reviewable decisions are prescribed to be IRT-reviewable decisions:
  (a) a decision to refuse a substantive visa, if:
    (i) the applicant is in immigration detention when the decision is
notified to him or her; or
    (ii) the applicant is a member of a family unit of which another member
is in immigration detention at the time the decision is notified to the
applicant, and the applications for visas by those 2 members were combined;
or
    (iii) the applicant is a person to whom section 48 of the Act (which
deals with persons refused visas or whose visas have been cancelled in
Australia) applied at the time he or she made the application;
  (b) a decision to refuse:
    (i) a Transitional (Temporary) visa on the basis of an application for
a December 1989 (temporary) (code number 440) entry permit made under the
Migration (1989) Regulations that is taken, under the Migration Reform
(Transitional Provisions) Regulations, to be an application for a Transitional
(Temporary) visa; or
    (ii) a Transitional (Permanent) visa on the basis of an application
for:
      (A) a December 1989 (permanent) (code number 812) entry permit made
under the Migration (1989) Regulations; or
      (B) a Class 812 (December 1989 (permanent)) entry permit made under
the Migration (1993) Regulations;
that is taken, under the Migration Reform (Transitional Provisions)
Regulations to be an application for a Transitional (Permanent) visa;
  (c) a decision to refuse a visa made as a delegate of the Minister by:
    (i) the Secretary; or
    (ii) an officer holding or acting in a Senior Executive Service
position;
  (d) a decision to cancel a visa.
(NOTE: "IRT-reviewable decisions" are reviewable only by the Tribunal.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.10
Time for lodgement of application for review by the Tribunal


  4.10. (1) Subject to subregulation (2), the period within which an
application for review of an IRT-reviewable decision must be given to the
Tribunal is:
  (a) in the case of a primary decision of a kind mentioned in paragraph (a)
of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision" in section 337 of the Act-28
days after the notification of the IRT-reviewable decision;
  (b) in the case of a primary decision of a kind mentioned in paragraph (b)
of that definition:
    (i) 2 working days after the notification of the IRT-reviewable
decision; or
    (ii) if the applicant gives notice to the Tribunal within those 2
working days that he or she intends to apply for review of the decision-5
working days after the applicant gives that notice;
  (c) in the case of a primary decision of a kind mentioned in paragraph (e),
        (f), (g) or (h) of that definition-70 days after the notification of the
IRT-reviewable decision.

  (2) The period within which an application for review of an IRT-reviewable
decision must be given to the Tribunal by an applicant in immigration
detention is:
  (a) in the case of an application for review of a decision of a kind
referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable
decision" in section 337 of the Act-2 working days after the notification of
the IRT-reviewable decision; or
  (b) in any other case:
    (i) 2 working days after the notification of the IRT-reviewable
decision; or
    (ii) if the applicant gives notice to the Tribunal within those 2
working days that he or she intends to apply for review of the decision-5
working days after the applicant gives that notice.

  (3) For the purposes of subparagraph (1) (b) (ii) or paragraph (2) (b),
notice is taken to be given to the Tribunal when it is received at a registry
of the Tribunal.

  (4) An application for review of an IRT-reviewable decision must set out:
  (a) the name and address of the applicant for review; and
  (b) a brief statement of the capacity in which the applicant applies for
review; and
  (c) details of the decision to which the application relates; and
  (d) if:
    (i) the application is made in relation to a decision refusing to grant
a visa, or a decision relating to a points test assessed score; and
    (ii) the applicant for the review was not also the applicant for the
visa;
the name and address of the applicant for the visa.

  (5) An application that is sent to the Tribunal by post is taken to be given
to the Tribunal at the time it is received at a registry of the Tribunal.

  (6) An application that is sent to the Tribunal by facsimile is taken to be
given to the Tribunal at the time the facsimile is received at a registry of
the Tribunal.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.11
Giving the application to the Tribunal


  4.11. An application for review by the Tribunal must be given to the
Tribunal:
  (a) in the case of a primary decision referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of
the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision" in section 337 of the Act-at a
registry of the Tribunal, by:
    (i) any method set out in subparagraph (c) (i), (ii) or (iii); or
    (ii) by sending it to that registry by facsimile transmission; or
  (b) in the case of a primary decision of any other kind, by an applicant who
is in immigration detention:
    (i) at a registry of the Tribunal, by:
      (A) any method set out in subparagraph (c) (i), (ii) or (iii); or
      (B) sending it to that registry by facsimile transmission; or
    (ii) by giving it to an officer of Immigration at a detention centre,
or at an office occupied by an officer of Immigration at an airport; or
  (c) in any other case-at a registry of the Tribunal:
    (i) by posting it to that registry; or
    (ii) by leaving it at that registry in a box designated for receiving
applications; or
    (iii) by leaving it with an officer of the Tribunal at that registry.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.12
Combined applications for review by the Tribunal


  4.12. (1) If:
  (a) 2 or more persons have, in accordance with regulation 4.03, combined
their applications for internal review of decisions of the Minister; and
  (b) the review officer's decisions in respect of 2 or more of those persons
are that the primary decisions be affirmed;
the persons referred to in paragraph (b) may combine their applications for
review by the Tribunal of the review officer's decisions.

  (2) If:
  (a) 2 or more applicants have combined their primary applications in
Australia in a way permitted by Schedule 1 or regulation 2.08; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of those applicants are
that a visa not be granted; and
  (c) the Minister's decisions are IRT-reviewable decisions;
the applicants referred to in paragraph (b) may combine their applications for
review by the Tribunal of the Minister's decisions.

  (3) If:
  (a) a person has nominated or sponsored 2 or more members of a family unit
in respect of their primary applications for visas of a kind referred to in
paragraph (e) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision"; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of the members of that
family unit are that a visa not be granted; and
  (c) the nominator or sponsor has, in accordance with regulation 4.03,
combined his or her applications for internal review of the Minister's
decisions in respect of each of the members of the family unit to whom the
Minister refused to grant a visa; and
  (d) the review officer's decisions in respect of 2 or more of those members
are that the primary decisions be affirmed;
the nominator or sponsor may combine his or her applications for review by the
Tribunal of the Minister's decisions in respect of each of the members of the
family unit to whom the Minister refused to grant a visa.

  (4) If:
  (a) a person has nominated or sponsored 2 or more members of a family unit
in respect of their primary applications for visas of a kind referred to in
paragraph (e) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision"; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of the members of that
family unit are that a visa not be granted; and
  (c) the Minister's decisions are IRT-reviewable decisions;
the nominator or sponsor may combine his or her applications for review by the
Tribunal of the Minister's decisions in respect of each of the members of the
family unit to whom the Minister refused to grant a visa.

  (5) If:
  (a) 2 or more members of a family unit have combined their primary
applications, in a way permitted by Schedule 1 or regulation 2.08, for visas
of a kind referred to in paragraph (f) or (g) of the definition of "Part 5
reviewable decision" in section 337 of the Act; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of the members of that
family unit are that visas not be granted; and
  (c) the Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident who is a parent,
spouse, child, brother or sister of the applicants has, in accordance with
regulation 4.03, combined his or her applications for internal review of the
Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of the members of the family unit
to whom the Minister refused to grant a visa; and
  (d) the review officer's decisions in respect of 2 or more of those members
are that the primary decisions be affirmed;
the Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident referred to in
paragraph (c) may combine his or her applications for review by the Tribunal
of the review officer's decisions in respect of each of the members of the
family unit to whom the Minister refused to grant a visa.

  (6) If:
  (a) 2 or more visa applicants have combined their primary applications, in a
way permitted by Schedule 1 or regulation 2.07, for visas of a kind referred
to in paragraph (f) or (g) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision"
in section 337 of the Act; and
  (b) the Minister's decisions in respect of 2 or more of those visa
applicants are that visas not be granted; and
  (c) the Minister's decisions are IRT-reviewable decisions;
the Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident who is a parent,
spouse, child, brother or sister of the visa applicants may combine his or her
applications for review by the Tribunal of the Minister's decisions in respect
of each of those visa applicants to whom the Minister refused to grant a visa.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.13
Review by the Tribunal-prescribed fee and waiver


  4.13. (1) Subject to this regulation, the prescribed fee on an application
for review by the Tribunal of a decision is $300.

  (2) No fee is payable on an application for review by the Tribunal of a
primary decision of a kind referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of the
definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision" in section 337 of the Act.

  (3) If a person combines 2 or more applications for review by the Tribunal
in accordance with regulation 4.12, an application fee is payable in respect
of only 1 of those applications.

  (4) The Registrar, or a Deputy Registrar, of the Tribunal may determine that
the fee on an application for review by the Tribunal of a decision should not
be paid if he or she is satisfied that payment of the fee has caused, or is
likely to cause, severe financial hardship to the review applicant.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.14
Refund of fee for review by Tribunal


  4.14. (1) The amount of a fee paid on an application for review by the
Tribunal is to be refunded if:
  (a) the decision to which the review relates is set aside or varied; or
  (b) the application is remitted to the primary decision-maker for
reconsideration; or
  (c) the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar determines under subregulation 4.13
(4) that the fee should not be paid; or
  (d) the applicant is not entitled to apply for review by the Tribunal; or
  (e) the decision to which the application relates is not subject to review
by the Tribunal; or
  (f) the Minister has given a conclusive certificate as referred to in
subsection 346 (4) of the Act (which deals with conclusive certificates) in
relation to the decision to which the application relates.
(NOTE: The conclusive certificate certifies that review would be contrary to
the public interest.)

  (2) If an application for review by the Tribunal is withdrawn, the fee paid
on the application is to be refunded if the application is withdrawn because:
  (a) the death has occurred, since the visa application was made, of:
    (i) the applicant for the visa that was the subject of the application;
or
    (ii) a member of that applicant's family unit; or
  (b) the applicant for the visa that was the subject of the application has
been granted a visa of the class applied for otherwise than because the
Minister has reconsidered the primary application and the applicant's score on
the reconsideration is more than or equal to the applicable pass mark.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.15
Tribunal's power to give directions


  4.15. For the purposes of paragraph 349 (2) (c) of the Act (which deals with
the Tribunal's power to remit):
  (a) an application for a visa or entry permit made on or after 19 December
1989 is a prescribed matter; and
  (b) a permissible direction is that the applicant must be taken to have
satisfied a specified criterion for the visa or entry permit.
(NOTE: 1. "Prescribed matter": in this case, a matter that the Tribunal may
remit for reconsideration.
2. See s. 390 of the Act, which modifies the Administrative Appeals Tribunal
Act 1975 for the purposes of review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal of
migration decisions. Under s. 43 (1A) (c), taken to be inserted in the
Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act for those purposes, the matters set out in
regulation 4.15 apply also to review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.16
Statement about decision under review


  4.16. The number of copies that the Secretary must give to the Registrar
under subsection 352 (2) of the Act (which deals with the statement that the
Secretary must give to the Tribunal) is 1.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.17
Time limits etc. in relation to other evidence-bridging visa decisions


  4.17. (1) In a case where the Tribunal is reviewing a decision referred to
in paragraph (c) or (d) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision", a
person who is required to provide to the Tribunal other evidence referred to
in paragraph 360 (1) (b) of the Act (which deals with other evidence that the
Tribunal considers is necessary) must provide the evidence within 2 working
days after the person is notified that the Tribunal has required the evidence
to be obtained.

  (2) The other evidence referred to in subregulation (1) may be provided by
facsimile transmission.

  (3) If the other evidence referred to in subregulation (1) is provided by
facsimile transmission, it is taken to have been provided at the time the
facsimile is sent.

  (4) For the purposes of this regulation, evidence is not to be taken to be
provided until received at a registry of the Tribunal.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.18
Time limits etc. in relation to other evidence-decisions other than
bridging visa decisions


  4.18. (1) In a case other than a case referred to in subregulation 4.17 (1),
a person who is required to provide to the Tribunal other evidence referred to
in paragraph 360 (1) (b) of the Act (which deals with other evidence that the
Tribunal considers is necessary) must provide the evidence within whichever is
applicable of the following periods after the person is notified that the
Tribunal has required the evidence to be obtained:
  (a) if the evidence is provided personally-10 days; or
  (b) if the evidence is provided by post from a place in Australia:
    (i) 14 days; or
    (ii) if the Tribunal so directs-28 days; or
  (c) if the evidence is provided by post from a place outside Australia:
    (i) 30 days; or
    (ii) if the Tribunal so directs-70 days.

  (2) The other evidence referred to in subregulation (1) may be provided by
facsimile transmission.

  (3) If the other evidence referred to in subregulation (1) is provided by
facsimile transmission, it is taken to have been provided at the time the
facsimile is received at a registry of the Tribunal.

  (4) For the purposes of this regulation, evidence is not to be taken to be
provided until received at a registry of the Tribunal.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.19
Summons to attend before Tribunal


  4.19. A summons referred to in subsection 363 (3) of the Act (which deals
with summonses to give evidence or produce documents) may be served on a
person:
  (a) by delivering the summons to the person personally;
  (b) by leaving it at the last-known place of residence of the person with a
person who appears to live there and who appears to have turned 16; or
  (c) by sending the summons by certified post to the person's last known
place of residence; or
  (d) in the case of a summons to the review applicant-if the review applicant
has notified the Tribunal of an address for service under regulation 4.39, by
sending the summons by certified post to that address.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.20
Fees for persons giving evidence


  4.20. (1) For the purposes of subsection 374 (1) of the Act (which deals
with the fees and allowances to be paid to a person summoned to give
evidence), the fees and allowances for expenses to be paid to a person
summoned to appear before the Tribunal in relation to a review by the Tribunal
are the fees and allowances in accordance with the scale in Schedule 2 to the
Administrative Appeals Tribunal Regulations as in force from time to time.

  (2) The presiding member of the Tribunal is to determine the fees and
allowances (if any) payable to a person under subregulation (1).


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.21
Number of Senior Members and of members of the Tribunal (Act, s. 394)


  4.21. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 394 (b) of the Act (which deals with
the number of Senior Members of the Tribunal), 6 is prescribed.

  (2) For the purposes of paragraph 394 (c) of the Act (which deals with the
number of members of the Tribunal), 50 is prescribed.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.22
Prescribed allowances-section 398 of the Act


  4.22. (1) For the purposes of section 398 of the Act (which deals with the
remuneration of the Principal Member), the allowance for the Principal Member
in relation to attendance in respect of his or her duties as Principal Member
is $6.63 for each day or part of a day on which he or she so attends in
respect of those duties.

  (2) The allowance under subregulation (1) is not payable for a Saturday or
Sunday, a public holiday or any day on which the Principal Member is
officially on leave from his or her duties.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.23
Expedited review (close family visit visas)


  4.23. (1) If:
  (a) an application for:
    (i) a Short Stay (Visitor) (Class TR) visa is refused on the ground
that:
      (A) the criterion specified in paragraph 673.221 (2) (c) in Part 673
of Schedule 2 is not met; or
      (B) in relation to public interest criterion 4011, the criterion
specified in paragraph 673.221 (2) (e) in Part 673 of that Schedule is not
met; or
    (ii) a Long Stay (Visitor) (Class TN) visa is refused on the ground
that:
      (A) the criterion specified in paragraph  683.221 (2) (c) in Part 683
of that Schedule is not met; or
      (B) in relation to public interest criterion 4011, the criterion
specified in clause 683.221 (2) (e) in Part 683 of that Schedule is not met;
and
  (b) the application was made for the purposes of participation by the
applicant in an event of special family significance in which the applicant is
directly concerned; and
  (c) the applicant identified the event and the applicant's concern in the
application; and
  (d) the application was made long enough before the event to allow for
internal review, and review by the Tribunal, if the application were refused;
the refusal must be reviewed immediately by a review officer on receipt of an
application for internal review.

  (2) A decision of a review officer must be reviewed immediately by the
Tribunal on receipt of an application for review of the decision.

  (3) A review authority must give notice of its decision in respect of an
application for review to the applicant as soon as practicable.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.24
Expedited review (decision to cancel visa)


  4.24. (1) A decision to cancel a visa (other than a decision of a kind
referred to in paragraph (d) of the definition of "Part 5 reviewable decision"
in section 337 of the Act) must be reviewed immediately by the Tribunal on
receipt by it of an application for review of the decision.

  (2) The Tribunal must give notice of its decision in respect of an
application for review to the applicant as soon as practicable.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.25
Expedited review (certain applicants in immigration detention)


  4.25. (1) If:
  (a) a decision is made to refuse a substantive visa; and
  (b) the person who applied for the visa is in immigration detention when the
review application is made;
the Tribunal must review the decision immediately on receipt of the
application.

  (2) The Tribunal must give notice of its decision in respect of an
application for review to the applicant as soon as practicable.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.26
Prescribed period for making certain decisions (Act, s. 367)


  4.26. For the purposes of subsection 367 (1) of the Act (which deals with
the time for the Tribunal to make a decision in certain cases), the prescribed
time is 7 working days.
(NOTE: Subsection 367 (1) of the Act provides for the Regulations to limit the
time for the Tribunal to decide on review of certain decisions regarding
bridging visas.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.27
Delegation by Secretary


  4.27. The Secretary may, by signed instrument, delegate the Secretary's
powers under this Division to an officer of Immigration who is a review
officer for the purposes of Part 5 of the Act.






1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.28
Interpretation


  4.28. Expressions used in this Division and in Part 7 of the Act have the
same respective meanings in this Division as in that Part.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.29
Membership


  4.29. For the purposes of paragraph 458 (b) of the Act, the prescribed
number of members (other than the Principal Member) of the Tribunal is 100.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.30
Remuneration and allowances


  4.30. For the purposes of subsection 463 (3) of the Act, the remuneration
and allowances of the first full-time member (other than the Principal Member)
to be appointed are the maximum remuneration and allowances payable to a
holder of an office in the Senior Executive Service of the Australian Public
Service classified as SES Band 1.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.31
Applications


  4.31. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 412 (1) (b) of the Act, each period
stated in subregulation (2) is prescribed as the period within which an
application for review of an RRT-reviewable decision to which the period
applies must be given to the Tribunal.

  (2) A period mentioned in subregulation (1) commences on the day on which
the applicant is notified of the decision to which the application relates,
and ends at the end of:
  (a) in the case of an application given to the Tribunal by or for an
applicant in immigration detention on that day-7 working days (beginning with
the first working day that occurs on or after that day); or
  (b) in any other case-28 days.
(NOTE: As to when an applicant is taken to be notified, see  r. 5.03.)

  (3) Subject to this regulation, an application must be lodged at a registry
of the Tribunal:
  (a) by posting the application to that registry; or
  (b) by leaving it at that registry in a box designated for the lodgment of
such applications; or
  (c) by leaving it with a person employed at that registry and authorised to
receive such documents; or
  (d) by means of electronic facsimile transmission to that registry.

  (4) An application posted in accordance with paragraph (3) (a) or
transmitted in accordance with paragraph (3) (d) is not to be taken to have
been lodged until it is received at a registry of the Tribunal.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.32
Notice of lodgment of application-person in immigration detention


  4.32. (1)  This regulation applies in the case of an application for review
of an RRT-reviewable decision that is lodged by or for a person who is in
immigration detention.

  (2) The person lodging it must give notice in writing, in accordance with
subregulation (3), to an officer of Immigration appointed by the Secretary to
be a detention review officer in the relevant State or Territory.

  (3) The notice must:
  (a) be given to the officer on the day on which the application is lodged;
and
  (b) state:
    (i) the nature of the application and the name of the person in respect
of whom it was lodged; and
    (ii) the registry at which it was lodged; and
    (iii) if the applicant is assisted by an agent (whether or not a
registered agent within the meaning of Part 3 of the Act), the agent's name
and address; and
    (iv) the manner in which the application has been lodged (being a
manner specified in subregulation 4.31 (3)).

  (4) Failure to comply with this regulation does not affect the validity of
an application.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.33
Powers of Tribunal


  4.33. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 415 (2) (c) of the Act, an
application for a Protection (Class AZ) visa is prescribed.

  (2) For the purposes of paragraphs 415 (2) (c) of the Act and 43 (1A) (c) of
the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (as substituted in relation to an
RRT-reviewable decision by section 452 of the Act), it is a permissible
direction that the applicant must be taken to have satisfied the criteria for
the visa that are specified in the direction.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.34
Statement about decision under review-number of copies


  4.34. For the purposes of subsection 418 (2) of the Act, the prescribed
number of copies of a statement of the kind mentioned in that subsection is 1.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.35
Time limit for providing evidence


  4.35. (1) This regulation applies where the Tribunal, acting under paragraph
425 (1) (b) of the Act, gives a person notice requiring the person to provide
evidence to the Tribunal.

  (2) If the person is required to provide the evidence in person, the person
must provide the evidence within a period of 10 days after the date of
notification.

  (3) If the person is required to provide the evidence by post from a place
in Australia, the person must post the evidence in time for it to be received
at the registry in due course of post within:
  (a) a period of 14 days after the date of notification; or
  (b) if the Tribunal directs a longer period, not exceeding 28 days, after
the date of notification-that longer period.

  (4) If the person is required to provide the evidence by post from a place
outside Australia, the person must post the evidence in time for it to be
received at the registry in due course of post within:
  (a) a period of 30 days after the date of notification; or
  (b) if the Tribunal directs a longer period, not exceeding 70 days, after
the date of notification-that longer period.

  (5) In requiring a person to provide evidence, the Tribunal is to specify
whether the person is required to provide the evidence in person, by post from
a place in Australia or by post from a place outside Australia.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.36
Duties, powers and functions of officers of Tribunal


  4.36. Each officer of the Tribunal has the following duties, powers and
functions:
  (a) the issuing of a summons by the Tribunal under paragraph 427 (3) (a) or
        (b) of the Act;
  (b) the obtaining of documents in connection with the review of an
RRT-reviewable decision;
  (c) the directing of attendance at a registry of the Tribunal in connection
with the review of an RRT-reviewable decision.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.37
Fees and allowances for persons giving evidence


  4.37 (1) For the purposes of subsection 436 (1) of the Act, the fees and
allowances for expenses to be paid to a person summoned to appear before the
Tribunal in relation to a review by the Tribunal are the fees and allowances
in accordance with the scale in Schedule 2 to the Administrative Appeals
Tribunal Regulations as in force from time to time.

  (2) The principal member of the Tribunal is to determine the fees and
allowances (if any) payable to a person under subregulation (1).




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.38
Interpretation


  4.38. In this Division:
  "Tribunal" means the Immigration Review Tribunal or the Refugee Review
Tribunal.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.39
Address for service


  4.39. (1) In this regulation:
  "lodge an address for service", in relation to an applicant for review,
means give the Tribunal notice in writing of an address at which documents
relating to a review may be sent to the applicant.

  (2) An applicant for review may:
  (a) lodge an address for service in a review; and
  (b) at any time after lodging an address for service, lodge a new address
for service in that review.

  (3) If an applicant for review lodges with the Tribunal a new address for
service under paragraph (2) (b):
  (a) that new address becomes the applicant for review's address for service
in the review; and
  (b) he or she must, immediately after doing so, serve on the Minister a
notice of that new address for service.

  (4) An address for service may be, but need not be, the applicant's
residential address.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.40
Notice of decision of Tribunal


  4.40. (1) A notice or statement to be given to an applicant in relation to a
decision of the Tribunal is to be taken to be duly given if the notice or
statement is given:
  (a) by posting it to the last address for service provided by the applicant
in connection with his or her application for review; or
  (b) by posting it to the residential address provided by the applicant in
his or her application for review; or
  (c) by giving it to the applicant or to a person authorised by the applicant
to receive documents of that kind on behalf of the applicant; or
  (d) by leaving it at the place of residence of the applicant with a person
who appears to live there and appears to have turned 16.

  (2) It is sufficient compliance with the requirement to give a notice or
statement under subregulation (1) if a facsimile or certified copy of the
notice or statement is so given.

  (3) A document posted in accordance with paragraph (1) (a) or (b) must bear
correct pre-paid postage and, if the document is posted to an overseas
address, the postage must be at the full airmail rate.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 4.41
Service of documents


  4.41. (1) If:
  (a) a document is to be given to, or served on, a person for the purposes of
a review by the Tribunal; and
  (b) no other provision as to the manner of giving or serving the document is
made by the Act or these Regulations;
the document may be given or served:
  (c) if the person has lodged an address for service under regulation 4.39,
by posting it to, or leaving it at, that address; or
  (d) if the person has not lodged an address for service:
    (i) by giving it to the person personally or to a person duly
authorised to receive documents on behalf of the first-mentioned person; or
    (ii) by posting it to the person at his or her last-known place of
residence; or
    (iii) by leaving it at that place of residence of the person with
another person who apparently lives there and has apparently turned 16.

  (2) It is sufficient compliance with a requirement to give or serve a
document referred to in subregulation (1) if a facsimile or certified copy of
the document is given or served in accordance with that subregulation.

  (3) A document posted in accordance with paragraph (1) (d) must bear correct
pre-paid postage and, if the document is posted to an overseas address, the
postage must be at the full airmail rate.

  (4) A document posted in accordance with this regulation is taken to be
received at a time worked out as set out in regulation 5.03.






1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.01
Interpretation


  5.01. In this Division:
  "document" includes:
  (a) a letter; and
  (b) an invitation, notice, notification, statement or summons, if it is in
writing.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.02
Service on a person in immigration detention


  5.02. (1) For the purposes of these Regulations, a notice to be served on a
person in immigration detention must:
  (a) be in writing; and
  (b) be served by:
    (i) giving it to the person himself or herself, or to another person
authorised by him or her to receive documents on his or her behalf; or
    (ii) sending it to his or her address last known to the Minister.

  (2) A document that is sent to a person is taken to be received by the
person at the time worked out as set out in  regulation 5.03.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.03
Time of receipt of notice etc. that is sent


  5.03. (1) For the purposes of these Regulations, and subject to specific
provision elsewhere in these Regulations, a document that is sent by the
Minister or a Tribunal is taken to be received:
  (a) if the notice is sent from a place in Australia to an address in
Australia-7 days after the date of the letter; or
  (b) if the notice is sent from:
    (i) a place outside Australia to an address in Australia; or
    (ii) a place in Australia to an address outside Australia; or
    (iii) a place outside Australia to an address outside Australia;
21 days after the date of the letter.

  (2) Subregulation (1) does not apply to a document unless it is posted
within 7 days after the date of the document.


(NOTE: If a person is proposed to be deported because he or she was convicted
of certain serious offences (set out in section 203 of the Act), he or she may
ask the Minister to appoint a Commissioner to inquire into whether the grounds
for the deportation have been made out. Section 253 of the Act provides that
if a person arrested as a deportee asserts that he or she is not the person
named in the deportation order, and makes a statutory declaration saying so,
the person must be taken before a prescribed authority, who must inquire into
whether there are reasonable grounds for supposing the person to be a
deportee. The persons who may be prescribed authorities are set out in section
255 and include a judge or former judge, a legal practitioner of at least 5
years' standing, and a magistrate.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.04
Power of Commissioner to send for witnesses and documents


  5.04. A Commissioner appointed under subsection 203 (4) of the Act (which
deals with the appointment of commissioners) may, by writing signed by the
Commissioner, summon any person:
  (a) to attend before the Commissioner at a time and place specified in the
summons; and
  (b) to give evidence; and
  (c) to produce any books or documents in the person's custody or control
which the person is required by the summons to produce.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.05
Duty of witness to continue in attendance


  5.05. A person who has been summoned to attend before a Commissioner as a
witness must appear and report from day to day, unless excused by the
Commissioner.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.06
Arrest of witness failing to appear


  5.06. (1) If a person who has been summoned to attend before a Commissioner
fails:
  (a) to attend before the Commissioner as required by the summons; or
  (b) to appear and report in accordance with regulation 5.05;
the Commissioner may, on being satisfied that the summons has been duly served
and that reasonable expenses have been paid or tendered to the person, issue a
warrant for the person's arrest.

  (2) A warrant authorises:
  (a) the arrest and bringing before the Commissioner of the person; and
  (b) the detention of the person in custody for the purposes specified in the
warrant until the person is released by order of the Commissioner.

  (3) A warrant may be executed by a member of the police force of the
Commonwealth or of a State or Territory or by any person to whom it is
addressed, and the person executing it has power to break and enter any place,
building or vessel for the purpose of executing the warrant.

  (4) The arrest of a person under this regulation does not relieve that
person from any liability incurred by the person because of the failure of
that person to attend before the Commissioner.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.07
Witnesses' fees


  5.07. (1) A person who attends to give evidence before a Commissioner is, in
respect of that attendance, to be paid such fees and travelling expenses as
the Commissioner allows in accordance with the scale in Schedule 2 to the
Public Works Committee Regulations as in force from time to time.

  (2) The fees and travelling expenses are payable:
  (a) in the case of a witness summoned at the request of the person to whom
the investigation relates-by that person; and
  (b) in any other case-by the Commonwealth.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.08
Power to examine on oath or affirmation


  5.08. (1) A Commissioner may administer an oath to a person appearing as a
witness before the Commissioner, whether the witness has been summoned or
appears without being summoned, and may examine the witness on oath.

  (2) If a witness conscientiously objects to swear an oath, the witness may
make an affirmation that the witness conscientiously objects to swear an oath
and that the witness will state the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth to all questions the witness is asked.

  (3) An affirmation so made is of the same force and effect, and entails the
same liabilities, as an oath.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.09
Offences by witnesses


  5.09. A person summoned to attend before a Commissioner as a witness must
not:
  (a) without reasonable cause, fail to attend, after payment or tender to the
person of a reasonable sum for expenses of attendance; or
  (b) refuse to be sworn or to make an affirmation as a witness, or to answer
any question when required to do so by the Commissioner; or
  (c) without reasonable cause, refuse or fail to produce a book or document
which the person was required by the summons to produce.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.10
Statements of person not admissible in evidence against the person


  5.10. A statement or disclosure made by a person in answer to a question put
to the person during an investigation by a Commissioner is not admissible in
evidence against the person in any civil or criminal proceedings other than:
  (a) proceedings in respect of a false answer; or
  (b) proceedings relating to the deportation of the person.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.11
Representation by counsel etc.


  5.11. (1) In an investigation before a Commissioner, the person summoned to
appear and the Minister are each entitled to be represented by a barrister or
solicitor or by an agent approved by the Commissioner.

  (2) A barrister, solicitor or agent appearing before a Commissioner may
examine or cross-examine witnesses and address the Commissioner.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.12
Offences in relation to Commissioners


  5.12. A person must not:
  (a) wilfully insult or disturb a Commissioner when exercising powers and
functions under the Act; or
  (b) interrupt the proceedings of a Commissioner; or
  (c) use insulting language towards a Commissioner; or
  (d) by writing or speech use words calculated to influence improperly a
Commissioner or a witness before a Commissioner.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.13
Protection of Commissioners, barristers and witnesses


  5.13. (1) A Commissioner has, in the performance of the duties of a
Commissioner, the same protection and immunity as a Justice of the High Court.

  (2) A barrister, solicitor or approved agent appearing before a Commissioner
has the same protection and immunity as a barrister has in appearing for a
party in proceedings in the High Court.

  (3) A witness summoned to attend, or appearing, before a Commissioner has
the same protection as a witness in proceedings in the High Court.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.14
Procedure of prescribed authorities


  5.14. This Part applies to:
  (a) prescribed authorities referred to in section 255 of the Act; and
  (b) proceedings before those prescribed authorities under section 253 of the
Act;
in the same manner as it applies to Commissioners and proceedings before
Commissioners and as if references in those provisions to a Commissioner were
references to a prescribed authority.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.15
Behaviour concern non-citizen


  5.15. For the purposes of paragraph (e) of the definition of "behaviour
concern non-citizen" in subsection 5 (1) of the Act, each of the following
circumstances is prescribed in relation to the exclusion of a person from a
country other than Australia:
  (a) that the person refused or failed to present a passport on request by
the competent authorities in that country in circumstances in which it would
be unreasonable to refuse or fail to do so;
  (b) that the person presented to those authorities a passport that was a
bogus document;
  (c) that the person was reasonably refused entry to that country on the
ground that the person was not a genuine visitor;
  (d) that the authorities of that country considered the person to be a
threat to the national security of the country.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.16
Prescribed diseases-health concern non-citizen (Act, s. 5 (1))


  5.16. For the purposes of the definition of "health concern non-citizen" in
subsection 5 (1) of the Act, tuberculosis (being tuberculosis that is not
being controlled with medication, and in respect of which the person suffering
from it refuses to sign an undertaking to visit a Commonwealth Medical Officer
within 7 days of entering Australia) is a prescribed disease.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.17
Prescribed evidence of English language proficiency (Act, s. 5 (2) (b))


  5.17. For the purposes of paragraph 5 (2) (b) of the Act (dealing with
whether a person has functional English), the evidence referred to in each of
the following paragraphs is prescribed evidence of the English language
proficiency of a person:
  (a) evidence that the person has completed all his or her primary education
and at least 3 years of secondary education at institutions where instruction
was then conducted in English;
  (b) evidence that the person has completed at least 5 years of secondary
education at institutions where instruction was then conducted in English;
  (c) evidence that the person has completed a course of training of a
duration of at least 3 years leading to the award of a tertiary qualification
at institutions where instruction was then conducted in English;
  (d) evidence that the person has passed the Occupational English Test;
  (e) evidence that the person has attained the functional level of the ACCESS
test, being evidence in the form of a copy of results of a test:
    (i) completed not more than 12 months before the person applies for the
grant of a visa in relation to which those results are relevant; or
    (ii) completed after the application is made;
and certified by the body that conducted the test as the results of the test
of the person;
  (f) evidence that the person has been assessed as having functional English
by the provider of a course that is an approved English course for the
purposes of section 4 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971;
  (g) evidence that the person has attained an overall band score of at least
5 on the IELTS test, being evidence in the form of a copy of results of a
test:
    (i) completed not more than 12 months before the person applies for the
grant of a visa in relation to which those results are relevant; or
    (ii) completed after the application is made;
and certified by the body that conducted the test as the results of the test
of the person;
  (h) in the case of a person who is an applicant for a Business Skills
(Migrant) class visa-evidence that the person has a score of at least 20
points under Part 3 of Schedule 7, being a score awarded on the basis of an
interview of the person for the purpose of ascertaining that score;
  (j) if:
    (i) the person is an applicant for a visa of a class that is not
mentioned in paragraph (h); and
    (ii) evidence referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) cannot be
provided by the person; and
    (iii) it is not reasonably practicable for the person to attend at a
place where, or time when, he or she could be subjected to a test mentioned in
paragraph (e) or (f);
evidence that the person has been determined by the Minister, on the basis of
an interview with the person, to have functional English.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.18
Prescribed laws relating to control of fishing (Act, s. 262 (b))


  5.18. For the purposes of paragraph 262 (b) of the Act (specifying laws
that, if broken by a non-citizen in certain circumstances, will render the
non-citizen liable to repay costs to the Commonwealth), the following laws are
prescribed:
  (a) the following laws of the Commonwealth:
    (i) the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act 1968;
    (ii) the Fisheries Act 1952;
    (iii) the Fisheries Management Act 1991;
    (iv) the Torres Strait Fisheries Act 1984;
  (b) the following laws of Queensland:
    (i) the Fisheries Act 1976;
    (ii) the Fishing Industry Organisation and Marketing Act 1982;
  (c) the Fisheries Act 1905 of Western Australia.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.19
Approved appointments (employer nomination)


  5.19. (1) A proposed appointment is an approved appointment for the purpose
of these Regulations if it is the subject of an employer nomination that meets
the requirements of subregulation (2).

  (2) An employer nomination meets the requirements of this subregulation if:
  (a) the employer nomination is made by an employer in respect of a need for
a paid employee in a business:
    (i) located in Australia; and
    (ii) operated by that employer; and
  (b) the work to be performed requires the appointment of a highly skilled
person; and
  (c) the appointment will provide the employee with full-time employment
and:
    (i) will be permanent; or
    (ii) in the case of an appointment to an academic or
scientific-research position in an academic, or scientific research,
institution:
  (a) will be for a fixed term of at least 3 years; and
  (b) will not be subject to an express exclusion of the possibility of
renewal of the appointment for a further fixed term of 3 years; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied:
    (i) that the employer has made, and continues to make, adequate
provision for training existing employees in work relevant to the business;
or
    (ii) if the business is newly established, that the employer is making
adequate provision for future training of employees in work relevant to the
business; and
  (e) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) an Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident cannot be
found who is suitable for the appointment; or
    (ii) in the circumstances of the case, the employer should not be
required to seek a suitable employee in Australia; and
  (f) the applicant is to be employed or engaged in Australia in accordance
with the standards for wages and working conditions provided for under
relevant Australian legislation and awards.

  (3) In this regulation:
  "highly skilled person", in relation to a proposed employment appointment,
means a person who has, in respect of work of the kind to be performed under
that appointment:
  (a) completed, over a period of at least 3 years, formal training or
equivalent experience; and
  (b) unless the approved appointment is exceptional-been employed in work of
the kind for which he or she was trained, or in which he or she is
experienced, for at least 3 years:
    (i) after completing the training or experience referred to in
paragraph (a); and
    (ii) before making the application; and
  (c) acquired competence assessed by the Minister to be at least average for
a person to whom paragraphs (a) and (b) apply.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.20
Prescribed penalties (Act, ss. 137, 229 and 230)


  5.20. (1) For the purposes of paragraph 504 (1) (i) of the Act (which
authorises the Regulations to set penalties as an alternative to prosecution),
the prescribed penalty for an offence against section 137 of the Act is:
  (a) in the case of a failure by a person to supply the person's
address-$250; or
  (b) in any other case-$1,000.

  (2) For the purposes of paragraph 504 (1) (j) of the Act, the prescribed
penalty for an offence against section 229 or 230 of the Act is $2,000.
(NOTE: Section 137 permits the Secretary to require information from the
holder of a business visa. Section 229 prohibits the carrying of persons to
Australia without visas. Section 230 makes it an offence to have an unlawful
non-citizen concealed on a vessel entering Australia.)




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.21
Interpretation


  5.21. (1) In this Division:
  "authorised officer" includes the Secretary;
  "business visa" has the same meaning as in section 137 of the Act;
  "infringement notice" means a notice under regulation 5.22;
  "offence" means a contravention of section 137, 229 or 230 of the Act;
  "prescribed penalty", in relation to an offence, means the prescribed
penalty prescribed by regulation 5.20 in relation to the offence.
(NOTE: s. 137 permits the Secretary to require information from the holder of
a business visa. Section 229 prohibits the carrying of persons to Australia
without visas. Section 230 makes it an offence to have an unlawful non-citizen
concealed on a vessel entering Australia.)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.22
When can an infringement notice be served?


  5.22. If an authorised officer has reason to believe that a person has
committed an offence, he or she may cause an infringement notice to be served
on the person in accordance with this Division.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.23
What must an infringement notice contain?


  5.23. (1) An infringement notice must:
  (a) state the name of the authorised officer who caused the notice to be
served; and
  (b) set out:
    (i) the day on which the offence is alleged to have been committed; and
    (ii) if the offence is against section 229 or 230 of the Act, the place
at which the offence is alleged to have been committed; and
  (c) give brief particulars of the alleged offence; and
  (d) set out the prescribed penalty; and
  (e) state that, if the person on whom it is served does not wish the matter
to be dealt with by a court, he or she may pay that penalty within 28 days
after the date of service of the notice unless the notice is withdrawn before
the end of that period; and
  (f) specify where and how that penalty may be paid; and
  (g) set out the procedures relating to the withdrawal of notices and the
consequences of the withdrawal of a notice.

  (2) An infringement notice may contain any other particulars that the
authorised officer considers necessary.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.24
Can the time for payment be extended?


  5.24. If an infringement notice has been served on a person, an authorised
officer may, if he or she is satisfied that in all the circumstances it is
proper to do so, allow a further period for payment of the prescribed penalty,
whether or not the period of 28 days after the date of service of the notice
has expired.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.25
What happens if the prescribed penalty is paid?


  5.25. If the person on whom an infringement notice is served pays the
prescribed penalty in relation to the alleged offence before:
  (a) the end of:
    (i) the period of 28 days after the date of service of the notice; or
    (ii) if a further period has been allowed under regulation 5.24-that
further period; or
  (b) the notice is withdrawn;
whichever happens first, then:
  (c) any liability of the person in respect of the alleged offence is
discharged; and
  (d) no further proceedings may be taken in respect of the alleged offence;
and
  (e) the person is not to be taken to have been convicted of the alleged
offence.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.26
Can an infringement notice be withdrawn?


  5.26. (1) If an infringement notice has been served on a person, an
authorised officer may withdraw it by notice in writing served on the person
in accordance with these Regulations, at any time before:
  (a) the end of 28 days after the date of service of the notice; or
  (b) if a further period has been allowed under regulation 5.24-the end of
that further period.

  (2) An infringement notice for an alleged offence against section 229 or 230
of the Act must not be withdrawn under subregulation (1) after the expiry of 3
months commencing on the day on which the notice was served.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.27
Refund of prescribed penalty if notice withdrawn


  5.27. If:
  (a) an infringement notice has been served on a person; and
  (b) the person has paid the prescribed penalty in accordance with the
notice; and
  (c) the notice is subsequently withdrawn;
an authorised officer must arrange for the refund to the person of an amount
equal to the amount so paid.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.28
Evidence


  5.28. (1) At the hearing of a prosecution for an offence specified in an
infringement notice, a certificate signed by an authorised officer and
stating:
  (a) that the authorised officer did not allow further time under regulation
5.24 for payment of the penalty specified in the notice; and
  (b) that the penalty has not been paid in accordance with the notice within
28 days after the date of service of the notice;
is evidence of those matters.

  (2) At the hearing of a prosecution for an offence specified in an
infringement notice, a certificate signed by an authorised officer and
stating:
  (a) that the authorised officer allowed, under regulation 5.24, the further
time specified in the certificate for payment of the prescribed penalty; and
  (b) that the penalty has not been paid in accordance with the notice or
within the further time allowed;
is evidence of those matters.

  (3) At the hearing of a prosecution for an offence specified in an
infringement notice, a certificate signed by an authorised officer and stating
that the notice was withdrawn on a day specified in the certificate is
evidence of that fact.

  (4) A certificate that purports to have been signed by an authorised officer
is taken to have been signed by that person unless the contrary is proved.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.29
Can there be more than one infringement notice for the same offence?


  5.29. This Division does not prevent more than one infringement notice being
served on a person for the same offence, but regulation 5.25 applies to the
person if the person pays the prescribed penalty in accordance with one of the
infringement notices.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.30
What if payment is made by cheque?


  5.30. If a cheque is offered to Immigration as payment of all or part of the
amount of a penalty specified in an infringement notice, payment is taken not
to have been made unless the cheque is honoured upon presentation.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.31
Infringement notice not compulsory


  5.31. Nothing in this Division:
  (a) requires an infringement notice to be served on a person in relation to
an offence; or
  (b) affects the liability of a person to be prosecuted for an offence if the
person does not comply with an infringement notice; or
  (c) affects the liability of a person to be prosecuted for an offence if an
infringement notice is not served on the person in relation to the offence;
or
  (d) affects the liability of a person to be prosecuted for an offence if an
infringement notice is served and withdrawn; or
  (e) limits the amount of the fine that may be imposed by a court on a person
convicted of an offence.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.32
Search warrants (Act, ss. 223 (14) and 251 (4))


  5.32. (1) A search warrant for the purposes of subsection 223 (14) of the
Act (dealing with directions about, and seizure of, the valuables of
non-citizens in detention) is to be in accordance with prescribed form 1.

  (2) A search warrant for the purposes of subsection 251 (4) of the Act
(dealing with entry and search for unlawful non-citizens) is to be in
accordance with prescribed form 2.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.33
Document for purposes of s.274 (3) (a) of Act


  5.33. A document for the purposes of paragraph 274 (3) (a) of the Act
(dealing with documents relating to persons to be removed or deported from
Australia) is to be in accordance with prescribed form 3.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.34
Offences


  5.34. A person must not contravene or fail to comply with a provision of
these Regulations that is applicable to that person.
Penalty: 10 penalty units.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.35
Medical treatment of persons in detention under the Act


  5.35. (1) In this regulation:
  "detainee" means a person held at a detention centre in detention under the
Act;
  "medical treatment" includes:
  (a) the administration of nourishment and fluids; and
  (b) treatment in a hospital.

  (2) The Secretary may authorise medical treatment to be given to a detainee
if:
  (a) the Secretary, acting in person and on the written advice of:
    (i) a Commonwealth Medical Officer; or
    (ii) another registered medical practitioner;
forms the opinion that:
    (iii) that detainee needs medical treatment; and
    (iv) if medical treatment is not given to that detainee, there will be
a serious risk to his or her life or health; and
  (b) that detainee fails to give, refuses to give, or is not reasonably
capable of giving, consent to the medical treatment.

  (3) An authorisation by the Secretary under subregulation (2) is authority
for the use of reasonable force (including the reasonable use of restraint and
sedatives) for the purpose of giving medical treatment to a detainee.

  (4) A detainee to whom medical treatment is given under an authorisation
under subregulation (2) is taken for all purposes to have consented to the
treatment.

  (5) Medical treatment that is given under an authorisation under
subregulation (2) must be given by, or in the presence of, a registered
medical practitioner.

  (6) Nothing in this regulation authorises the Secretary to require a
registered medical practitioner to act in a way contrary to the ethical, moral
or religious convictions of that medical practitioner.




1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.36
Payment of fees in foreign currencies


  5.36. (1) Payment in a foreign country of a fee payable under these
Regulations may be made:
  (a) by payment of the amount of that fee in Australian currency; or
  (b) by payment of the corresponding amount in a currency that is specified
for the purposes of this paragraph by Gazette Notice, ascertained in
accordance with that Gazette Notice; or
  (c) by payment of the corresponding amount, ascertained in accordance with
subregulation (2), in the currency of the country in which the payment is
made, not being a currency specified for the purposes of paragraph (b).

  (2) The formula is:
                    AUD x CER x 1.05
where:
  "AUD" means the amount of the fee in Australian dollars;
  "CER" means the highest exchange rate that is lawfully obtainable on a
commercial basis for the purchase in the foreign country of Australian
currency with the currency of the foreign country in a period that:
  (a) begins:
    (i) on the day when this regulation commences; or
    (ii) on any subsequent day when that rate increases or decreases by at
least 5%; and
  (b) ends at the end of each day before another period begins.

  (3) If the amount worked out by that formula cannot be paid wholly in
banknotes of that country, the corresponding amount is that amount rounded up
to the nearest larger amount that is payable wholly in banknotes of that
country.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.37
Employer nomination fee


  5.37. The fee payable in respect of an employer nomination is $260 and must
be paid at the time the nomination is lodged.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.38
Sponsorship fee


  5.38. (1) This regulation applies to sponsorship of an applicant if:
  (a) the applicant is applying for a temporary visa for which sponsorship is
a requirement (other than a Subclass 426 (Domestic Worker (Diplomatic or
Consular)) visa); and
  (b) the sponsor is a person or organisation in Australia who, or which,
lodges the application on behalf of the applicant.

  (2) Subject to subregulation (3), there is payable for a sponsorship of an
applicant to which this regulation applies:
  (a) if not more than 10 applications are lodged together by the sponsoring
person or organisation-$195 for each sponsorship; or
  (b) if more than 10 applications are lodged together by the sponsoring
person or organisation-$1950.

  (3) If an application for a visa is not subject to a fee under these
Regulations, no fee is payable for a sponsorship in respect of that
application.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.39
Refund of fees


  5.39. (1) If:
  (a) a fee is paid by a person, before or after the commencement of this
regulation, for:
    (i) an application for a visa; or
    (ii) an application, made before 1 September 1994, for an entry permit;
and
  (b) the application is for any reason unnecessary or is made as a result of
a mistake made by the person or by Immigration;
the person is entitled to a refund of the amount of the fee paid.

  (2) If:
  (a) a fee is paid by a person, before or after the commencement of this
regulation, for:
    (i) an application for a visa; or
    (ii) an application, made before 1 September 1994, for an entry permit;
and
  (b) the applicant dies before a decision is made on the application;
the legal personal representative of the applicant is entitled to a refund of
the amount of the fee paid.

  (3) The receipt of a person purporting to be a legal personal representative
of a deceased applicant is for all purposes a good discharge of any liability
of the Commonwealth under subregulation (2).

  (4) A refund that is due to a person under this regulation may be paid to
him or her in a currency other than Australian currency, if the fee was paid
in that other currency.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - REG 5.40
Fee for assessment of a person's work qualifications and experience


  5.40. A fee of $100 is payable on an application for an assessment for the
purposes of the Act of a person's occupational qualifications or experience
(or both) by the Department of Industrial Relations or NOOSR.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 1


                              SCHEDULE 1       Regulations 2.02 and 2.05
                          CLASSES OF VISAS
(NOTE: This Schedule sets out the specific ways in which a non-citizen
applies for a visa of a particular class. An application that is not made
as set out in this Schedule is not valid and will not be considered: see
the Act, ss. 45, 46 and 47. If an item specifies that 2 or more persons may
combine their applications, only 1 fee is payable: see r. 2.07 (2).)
                        PART 1-PERMANENT VISAS
1101. Adoption (Migrant) (Class AA)
  (1) Form: 47
  (2) Fee: $400
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for an Adoption (Migrant) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
102 (Adoption)
1102. Burmese in Burma (Special Assistance) (Class AB)
  (1) Form: 917.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Burmese (Special Assistance) visa may
be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application
by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
211 (Burmese)
1103. Burmese in Thailand (Special Assistance) (Class AC)
  (1) Form: 917.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Burmese in Thailand (Special
Assistance) visa may be made at the same time and place as, and combined
with, the application by that person
  (4) Subclasses:
213 (Burmese in Thailand)
1104. Business Skills (Migrant) (Class AD)
  (1) Form: 47, 926, 927 and 928.
  (2) Fee: $1715
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in Australia (but not in
immigration clearance) or outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Business Skills (Migrant) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
127 (Business owner)
128 (Senior Executive))
129 (State/Territory sponsored business owner)
130 (State/Territory sponsored senior executive)
1105. Cambodian (Special Assistance) (Class AE)
  (1) Form: 917.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Cambodian (Special Assistance) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
214 (Cambodian)
1106. Camp Clearance (Migrant) (Class AF)
  (1) Form: 842.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Camp Clearance (Migrant) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person
  (4) Subclasses:
205 (Camp clearance)
1107. Change in Circumstance (Residence) (Class AG)
  (1) Form: 887.
  (2) Fee: (a) Applicant:
    (i) whose parent has been granted a permanent visa; and
    (ii) who was included in the parent's application for:
      (A) a Group 1.1 (Migrant) visa under the Migration (1993)
Regulations; or
      (B) a Business (Joint venture) visa (code number 122) or a business
        (general) visa (code number 123) under the Migration (1989) Regulations;
  Nil;
  (b) Any other applicant: $395.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia, but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Change in Circumstance (Residence)
visa may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
802 (Child)
804 (Aged parent)
806 (Family)
833 (Certain unlawful non-citizens)
1108. Child (Migrant) (Class AH)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Child (Migrant) visa may be made at
the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
101 (Child)
1109. Citizens of Former Yugoslavia (Special Assistance) (Class AI)
  (1) Form: 917.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Citizens of Former Yugoslavia
(Special Assistance) visa may be made at the same time and place as, and
combined with, the application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
209 (Citizens of former Yugoslavia-displaced persons)
1110. Concessional Family (Migrant) (Class AJ)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Concessional Family (Migrant) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
105 (Concessional family)
1111. Confirmatory (Residence) (Class AK)
  (1) Form: 852.
  (2) Fee: (a) In the case of an applicant who, on last arriving in
Australia, was granted a Subclass 773 (border) visa: $115.
  (b) In any other case: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Confirmatory (Residence) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
808 (Confirmatory)
1112. Distinguished Talent (Migrant) (Class AL)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Distinguished Talent (Migrant) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses 124 (Distinguished talent (Australian support)
125 (Distinguished talent and Special Service (independent))
1113. East Timorese in Portugal (Special Assistance) (Class AM)
  (1) Form: 917.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for an East Timorese in Portugal (Special
Assistance) visa may be made at the same time and place as, and combined
with, the application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
208 (East Timorese in Portugal)
1114. Employer Nomination (Migrant) (Class AN)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for an Employer Nomination (Migrant) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
121 (Employer Nomination Scheme)
1115. Family (Residence) (Class AO)
  (1) Form: 887.
  (2) Fee: (a) If the applicant is the holder of a transitional
        (temporary) visa granted on the basis that he or she satisfied the criteria
for the grant of an extended eligibility (temporary) entry permit under the
Migration (1989) Regulations: $165.
  (b) Applicant:
    (i) whose parent has been granted a permanent visa; and
    (ii) who was included in the parent's application for:
      (A) a Group 1.1 (Migrant ) visa under the Migration (1993)
Regulations; or
      (B) a Business (Joint venture) visa (code number 122) or a business
        (general) visa (code number 123) under the Migration (1989) Regulations;
  Nil.
  (c) In any other case: $395.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Family (Residence) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
831 (Prospective Marriage Spouse)
802 (Child)
804 (Aged parent)
806 (Family)
832 (Close ties)
1116. Family of NZ Citizen (Migrant) (Class AP)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Family of NZ citizen (Migrant) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
152 (Family of NZ Citizen)
1117. Former Citizen (Migrant) (Class AQ)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Former Citizen (Migrant) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
150 (Former Citizen)
1118. Former Resident (Migrant) (Class AR)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Former Resident (Migrant) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
151 (Former Resident)
1119. General (Residence) (Class AS)
  (1) Form: (a) If the applicant is the holder of a subclass 445
(Dependent Child) visa: 1002.
  (b) In any other case: 887.
  (2) Fee: (a) If the applicant is the holder of a subclass 445
(Dependent Child) visa: Nil.
  (b) If the applicant is the holder of a transitional (temporary) visa,
granted on the basis that the holder satisfied the criteria for grant of an
extended eligibility temporary entry permit under the Migration (1989)
Regulations: $165.
  (c) If the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa, entered
Australia before 19 December 1989, at the time of entry was engaged to be
married to a person who was an Australian citizen or Australian permanent
resident, and has subsequently married that person: $395.
  (d) If the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa, entered
Australia on or after 19 December 1989 as the holder of a Class 300 entry
permit, and ceased to hold a substantive visa after marrying the Australian
citizen or Australian permanent resident whom the applicant entered
Australia to marry: $395.
  (e) In any other case: $835.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a General (Residence) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person
  (4) Subclasses:
801 (Spouse)
804 (Aged parent)
805 (Skilled)
806 (Family)
814 (Interdependency)
832 (Close ties)
1120. Independent (Migrant) (Class AT)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for an Independent (Migrant) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
126 (Independent)
1121. Labour Agreement (Migrant) (Class AU)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Labour Agreement (Migrant) visa may
be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application
by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
120 (Labour agreement)
1122. Minorities of Former USSR (Special Assistance) (Class AV)
  (1) Form: 917.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Minorities of Former USSR (Special
Assistance) visa may be made at the same time and place as, and combined
with, the application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
210 (Minorities of former USSR)
1123. Norfolk Island Permanent Resident (Residence) (Class AW)
  (1) Form: 15
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in immigration clearance.
  (c) The applicant must show a clearance officer a passport that is in
force and that is endorsed with an authority to reside indefinitely on
Norfolk Island.
  (4) Subclasses:
834 (Norfolk Is)
1124. Parent (Migrant) (Class AX)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Parent (Migrant) visa may be made at
the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
103 (Parent)
1125. Preferential Relative (Migrant) (Class AY)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Preferential Relative (Migrant) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
104 (Preferential family)
1126. Protection (Class AZ)
  (1) Form: 866.
  (2) Fee: (a) $30.
  (b) If the applicant is in immigration detention and has not been
immigration cleared: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Protection visa may be made at the
same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
866 (Protection)
1127. Refugee and Humanitarian (Migrant) (Class BA)
  (1) Form: 842.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Refugee and Humanitarian (Migrant)
visa may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
200 (Refugee)
201 (In-country special humanitarian)
202 (Global special humanitarian)
203 (Emergency rescue)
204 (Woman at risk)
1128. Return (Residence) (Class BB)
  (1) Form: 759.
  (2) Fee: (a) Application made in Australia: $60.
  (b) Application made outside Australia: $75.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person who is included in the passport of another
applicant for a Return (Residence) visa may be made at the same time and
place as, and combined with, the application by that other applicant
  (4) Subclasses:
155 (Five year return)
156 (One year return)
157 (Three month return)
1129. Spouse (Migrant) (Class BC)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $400.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Applicant must be outside Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Spouse (Migrant) visa may be made at
the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
100 (Spouse)
1130. Sudanese (Special Assistance) (Class BD)
  (1) Form: 917.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Sudanese (Special Assistance) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
212 (Sudanese)
1131. Territorial Asylum (Residence) (Class BE)
  (1) Form: Nil.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made by or on behalf of the
applicant in a manner approved by a Minister.
  (b) Application must be made in Australia.
  (c) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (d) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Territorial Asylum (Residence) visa
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
800 (Territorial)
          PART 2-TEMPORARY VISAS (OTHER THAN BRIDGING VISAS)
1201. Border (Temporary) (Class TA)
  (1) Form: 871.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) In the case of an application by a non-citizen who:
    (i) is a dependent child of a non-citizen; and
    (ii) is the holder of a subclass 773 visa:
      (A) application may be made in Australia; and
      (B) applicant must be in Australia.
  (b) In any other case:
    (i) Application must be made in immigration clearance.
    (ii) Applicant must be in immigration clearance.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Border (Temporary) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
773 (Border)
1202. Business (Temporary) (Class TB)
  (1) Form: 147
  (2) Fee: (a) If the application is made outside Australia and the
applicant satisfies the requirements for a subclass 411 visa: Nil.
  (b) In any other case: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria
  (4) Subclasses:
411 (Exchange)
412 (Independent executive)
413 (Executive)
414 (Specialist)
418 (Educational)
422 (Medical practitioner)
1203. Citizens of Former Yugoslavia (Temporary) (Class TC)
  (1) Form: 1004.
  (2) Fee: $30.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia, but not in
immigration clearance
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Citizens of Former Yugoslavia
(Temporary) visa may be made at the same time and place as, and combined
with, the application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
443 (Citizens of former Yugoslavia)
1204. Confirmatory (Temporary) (Class TD)
  (1) Form: 1001.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Applicant must be the holder of an Emergency (temporary) visa.
  (d) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a visa may be made at the same time and
place as, and combined with, the application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
446 (Confirmatory)
1205. Cultural/Social (Temporary) (Class TE)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: (a) If the application is made outside Australia and the
applicant satisfies the requirements of sub-item (b) or (c): Nil.
  (b) An applicant satisfies the requirements of this sub-item if the
purpose of the applicant's visit is to perform as an entertainer, or assist
in performances, and:
    (i) the Minister is satisfied that the purpose of the applicant's visit
to Australia is:
      (A) cultural; and
      (B) not for a pecuniary reward exceeding the expenses of the
applicant; or
    (ii) the applicant is sponsored to enter Australia for the purpose
of performing at:
      (A) the Adelaide Festival; or
      (B) the Brisbane Biennial Festival; or
      (C) the Melbourne International Festival; or
      (D) the Festival of Perth; or
      (E) the Festival of Sydney; or
      (F) a festival approved by the Secretary for the purposes of this
clause; or
    (iii) the applicant is sponsored to enter Australia by an
organisation that:
      (A) is funded, wholly or in part, by the Commonwealth; and
      (B) is approved by the Secretary for the purposes of this clause.
  (c) An applicant satisfies the requirements of this sub-item if the
applicant satisfies Schedule 2 subclause 421.221 (1) or (2) because of
having been:
    (i) entered in a sporting event in an amateur capacity; or
    (ii) appointed or employed to assist:
      (A) an amateur participant; or
      (B) an amateur team;
entered in a sporting event
  (d) If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant is a
member of a sporting or entertainment body comprising not fewer than 10
applicants-a fee equal to $1400 divided by the number of applicants
included in that body.
  (e) In any other case: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria
  (4) Subclasses:
414 (Specialist (overseas))
416 (Special program)
420 (Entertainment)
421 (Sport)
423 (Media and film staff)
424 (Public lecturer)
428 (Religious worker)
1206. Diplomatic (Temporary) (Class TF)
  (1) Form: Nil
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made by or on behalf of the
applicant in a manner approved by the Minister.
  (b) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but not in
immigration clearance.
  (c) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (d) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
995 (Diplomatic)
1207. Domestic Worker (Temporary) (Class TG)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
426 (Diplomatic or consular)
427 (Overseas executive)
1208. Educational (Temporary) (Class TH)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
415 (Foreign government agency)
418 (Educational)
419 (Visiting academic)
442 (Occupational trainee)
1209. Emergency (Temporary) (Class TI)
  (1) Form: 1003.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made inside or outside Australia,
but not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
302 (Emergency (Permanent Visa Applicant))
303 (Emergency (Temporary Visa Applicant))
1210. Expatriate (Temporary) (Class TJ)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for an Expatriate (Temporary) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
432 (Expatriate)
1211. Extended Eligibility (Temporary) (Class TK)
  (1) Form: (a) If the applicant is outside Australia and is the
dependent child of the holder of a visa of subclass 820 (Spouse) or 826
(Interdependency): 918.
  (b) In any other case: 887.
  (2) Fee: (a) If the application is lodged at the same time as an
application for a General (Residence) visa: Nil.
  (b) If the application is made on form 918 and lodged outside
Australia: $105.
  (3) Other: (a) Application (other than by the dependent child outside
Australia of the holder of a visa of subclass 820 or 826) must be made at
the same time as an application for a General (Residence) visa.
  (b) Application for a visa of subclass 820 or 826 must be made in
Australia, but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Applicant for a visa of subclass 820 or 826 must be in Australia,
but not in immigration clearance.
  (d) Application by the dependent child of the holder of a visa of
subclass 820 or 826 must be made outside Australia.
  (e) Application by a person claiming to be a dependent child of a
person who is an applicant for an Extended Eligibility (Temporary) visa may
be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application
by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
820 (Spouse)
826 (Interdependency)
445 (Dependent Child)
1212. Family Relationship (Temporary) (Class TL)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
425 (Family relationship)
1213. Interdependency (Temporary) (Class TM)
  (1) Form: 914.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Applicant must be outside Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a dependent child of a
person who is an applicant for an Interdependency (Temporary) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
305 (Interdependency)
1214. Long Stay (Visitor) (Class TN)
  (1) Form: (a) If application is made outside Australia: 48, 48L or
48R.
  (b) If application is made in Australia: 601.
  (2) Fee: (a) Application made outside Australia: $30.
  (b) Application made in the migration zone: $135.
  (c) The Minister may waive the fee for an application by a person who
applies as the representative of a foreign government.l.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Application by a person included in the passport of another person
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
680 (Tourist (Long stay))
682 (Business (Long stay))
683 (Close family (Long stay))
684 (Other (Long stay))
685 (Medical treatment (Long stay))
1215. Prospective Marriage (Temporary) (Class TO)
  (1) Form: 47.
  (2) Fee: $395.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Applicant must be outside Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Prospective Marriage (Temporary) visa
must be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
300 (Prospective marriage)
1216. Resident Return (Temporary) (Class TP)
  (1) Form: 759.
  (2) Fee: $75.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Application by a person who is included in the passport of another
applicant for a Resident Return (Temporary) visa may be made at the same
time and place as, and combined with, the application by that other
applicant.
  (4) Subclasses:
159 (Resident return).
1217. Retirement (Temporary) (Class TQ)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
410 (Retirement)
1218. Short Stay (Visitor) (Class TR)
  (1) Form: (a) If the applicant is outside Australia (whether or not
the application is made outside Australia): 48, 48T, 48L or 48R.
  (b) If the applicant is in Australia: 601.
  (2) Fee: (a) If the applicant is outside Australia (whether or not
the application is made outside Australia):
    (i) if the applicant seeks a visa to be in effect for a period of 4
years or the remaining validity of the applicant's passport (whichever is
the shorter), and that remaining period is 12 months or more: $30; or
    (ii) in any other case: Nil.
  (b) If the applicant is in Australia: $135.
  (c) The Minister may waive the fee on an application by a non-citizen
who applies as the representative of a foreign government.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) If the applicant is outside Australia, the application may be made
in the migration zone if and only if no fee is payable on the application
  (c) Application by a person included in the passport of another person
may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the
application by that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
670 (Tourist (short stay))
672 (Business visitor (short stay))
673 (Close family (short stay))
674 (Other (short stay))
675 (Medical treatment (short stay))
1219. Special Category (Temporary) (Class TY)
  (1) Form: 15.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made:
    (i) in Australia either in immigration clearance or after clearance; or
    (ii) if the applicant is to travel to Australia on a pre-cleared
flight-outside Australia in immigration clearance.
  (b) The applicant must give the clearance officer a New Zealand
passport that is in force.
  (4) Subclasses:
444 (Special Category)
1220. Special Tourist (Visitor) (Class TS)
  (1) Form: 48AJA.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: Application must be made outside Australia
  (4) Subclasses:
661 (Special tourist)
1221. Sri Lankan (Temporary) (Class TT)
  (1) Form: 1004.
  (2) Fee: $30.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia, but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Sri Lankan (Temporary) visa may be
made at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by
that person.
  (4) Subclasses:
435 (Sri Lankan)
1222. Student (Temporary) (Class TU)
  (1) Form: (a) In the case of an application made outside Australia:
157W or 157Y.
  (b) In the case of an application in Australia: 157Y.
  (2) Fee: (a) If the applicant or family members are approved under
an overseas students training scheme approved by the Commonwealth, or
applicant is an assisted student or an exchange student: Nil.
  (b) In any other case: $135.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
the application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
560 (Student)
562 (Iranian Postgraduate)
563 (562 Dependant)
1223. Supported Dependent (Temporary) (Class TW)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
430 (Supported Dependent)
1224. Transit (Temporary) (Class TX)
  (1) Form: 876.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made outside Australia.
  (b) Applicant must be outside Australia.
  (4) Subclasses:
771 (Transit)
1225. Working Holiday (Temporary) (Class TZ)
  (1) Form: 147.
  (2) Fee: $140.
  (3) Other: (a) Application may be made in or outside Australia, but
not in immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia to make an application in Australia.
  (c) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person may be made at the same time and place as, and combined with,
an application by any other member of the family unit seeking to satisfy
either the primary or secondary criteria.
  (4) Subclasses:
417 (Working holiday)
                     PART 3-BRIDGING VISAS
1301. Bridging A (Class WA)
  (1) Form: 887, 852. 147, 157Y, 601, 866, 1002, 1003, 1004 or 1005.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Applicant has:
    (i) made a valid application for a substantive visa that has not
finally been determined; or
    (ii) applied, within statutory time limits, for judicial review of a
decision to refuse a substantive visa.
  (d) Applicant must:
    (i) be the holder of:
      (A) a substantive visa; or
      (B) a bridging (Class A) visa; or
      (C) a bridging (Class B) visa; or
    (ii) have held a substantive visa when he or she made the
substantive visa application referred to in paragraph (c).
  (e) If the last substantive visa held by the applicant was cancelled,
the decision to cancel that visa has been set aside by a review authority.
  (f) Applicant is not in immigration detention or criminal detention.
  (g) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Bridging Class A visa may be made at
the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person
  (4) Subclasses:
010 (Class A)
1302. Bridging B (Class WB)
  (1) Form: 1005 or 1006
  (2) Fee: $50.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance
  (c) Applicant is not in immigration detention or criminal detention
  (d) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Bridging (Class B) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person
  (4) Subclasses:
020 (Class B)
1303. Bridging C (Class WC)
  (1) Form: 887, 852, 147, 157Y, 601, 866, 1002, 1003, 1004 or 1005.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Applicant:
    (i) has made a valid application for a substantive visa that has not
been finally determined; or
    (ii) has applied, within the time allowed, for judicial review of a
decision to refuse a substantive visa and held a bridging visa Class C
granted on the basis of the refused application
  (d) Applicant:
    (i) was not the holder of a substantive visa when he or she made the
substantive visa application referred to in paragraph (c); and
    (ii) does not hold a bridging visa Class E; and
    (iii) has not held a Bridging visa Class E since he or she last held
a substantive visa.
  (e) Applicant is not in immigration detention or in criminal detention.
  (f) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Bridging (Class C) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
030 (Class C)
1304. Bridging D (Class WD)
  (1) Form: 1007.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance.
  (c) Applicant is not in immigration detention or criminal detention
  (d) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Bridging (Class D) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
040 (Prospective Applicant)
041 (Non-applicant)
042 (Prospective Protection Visa Applicant)
1305. Bridging E (Class WE)
  (1) Form: 887, 852, 147, 157Y, 601, 866, 1002, 1003, 1004, 1005 or
1008.
  (2) Fee: Nil.
  (3) Other: (a) Application must be made in Australia but not in
immigration clearance.
  (b) Applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance
  (c) If applicant is in immigration detention, an officer appointed
under subregulation 4.32 (2) as a detention review officer for the State or
Territory in which the applicant is detained has been informed of the
application.
  (d) Application by a person claiming to be a member of the family unit
of a person who is an applicant for a Bridging (Class E) visa may be made
at the same time and place as, and combined with, the application by that
person.
  (4) Subclasses:
050 (subclass EAA)


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 2


                             SCHEDULE 2
          PROVISIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE GRANT OF SUBCLASSES OF VISAS
                   SUBCLASS 010-BRIDGING VISA A
010.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Compelling need to work" and "criminal detention" are defined in
regulation 1.03. For "eligible non-citizen" see regulation 2.20. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
010.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
010.21 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
010.211 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3),
(4), (5) or (6).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she is the holder of a substantive visa; and
  (b) he or she has made a valid application at the same time and on the
same form for another substantive visa; and
  (c) the application has not been finally determined.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she applied for a substantive visa and the application was
refused; and
  (b) he or she has applied, within the time limit to do so, for judicial
review of that refusal; and
  (c) at the time of that application, he or she held a bridging visa class
A or B; and
  (d) the judicial review proceedings (including proceedings on appeal, if
any) are not completed.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she holds a bridging visa Class A or B that is subject to
condition 8101, 8102, 8103, 8104, 8105, 8107, 8108 or 8111; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant has a compelling need to
work.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she has left and re-entered Australia; and
  (b) immediately before he or she left Australia, he or she was the holder
of a bridging visa class A; and
  (c) that bridging visa ceased under subsection 82 (8) of the Act at the
time he or she left Australia; and
  (d) that bridging visa would not have ceased otherwise than under that
subsection.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant previously held a bridging visa Class A or B that ceased
as a result of cancellation of a substantive visa held by the applicant;
and
  (b) the applicant would still hold the bridging visa if the substantive
visa had not been cancelled; and
  (c) the decision to cancel the substantive visa has been set aside by a
review authority.
010.22 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
010.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion set out in clause
010.211.
010.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
010.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
010.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance.
(NOTE: The applicant must be an eligible non-citizen at the time of grant:
see the Act, s. 73.)
010.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
010.511 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
a substantive visa-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect:
    (i) on grant; or
    (ii) when the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder ceases; and
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) if the Minister's decision in respect of the substantive visa
application is to grant a visa-on the grant of the visa; or
    (ii) if the Minister's decision in respect of that application is to
refuse to grant a visa-28 days after the holder is notified of that
refusal; or
    (iii) if the substantive visa application is refused and the holder
applies for merits review of that refusal-28 days after notification of the
decision of:
      (A) the review authority; or
      (B) if the holder has the right to apply to another review authority
for merits review of the decision of that review authority and so
applies-28 days after notification of the decision of that other review
authority; or
    (iv) the grant of another bridging visa to the holder in respect of the
same substantive visa application; or
  (v) if the holder withdraws his or her application for a substantive visa
or an application to a review authority-28 days after that withdrawal; or
  (vi) if the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder is cancelled-that
cancellation.
010.512 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen referred to in
subclause 010.211 (5) or (6)-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect:
    (i) on grant; or
    (ii) when any substantive visa held by the holder ceases; and
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) the day on which the bridging visa Class A held by the non-citizen
before he or she left Australia would have ceased; or
    (ii) if the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder is
cancelled-that cancellation.
010.513 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
judicial review of a decision-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect:
    (i) on grant; or
    (ii) when the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder ceases; and
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) 28 days after the judicial review proceedings (including proceedings
on appeal, if any) are completed; or
    (ii) the grant of another bridging visa to the holder in respect of the
same application for judicial review; or
    (iii) if the holder withdraws his or her application for judicial
review-28 days after that withdrawal;
    (iv) if the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder is
cancelled-that cancellation.
010.6 CONDITIONS
010.611 (1) In the case of a visa other than a visa granted to a non-citizen:
  (a) who is an applicant for a protection visa; or
  (b) who satisfies the criterion in subclause 010.211 (5);
whichever of conditions 8101, 8102, 8103, 8104, 8105, 8107, 8108 and 8111
applies to the substantive visa held at the time of grant of the visa.
  (2) In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who:
  (a) satisfies the criterion in subclause 010.211 (5); or
  (b) is an applicant for a Protection (Class AZ) visa;
Nil.e time of grant of the visa.
010.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
010.711 No evidence need be given unless the visa holder asks for it.
010.712 If evidence is given, to be given by a visa label attached to a
passport.
SUBCLASS 020-BRIDGING VISA B
INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Compelling need to work" and "criminal detention" are defined in
regulation 1.03. For "eligible non-citizen" see regulation 2.20. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
020.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
020.21 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
020.211 The applicant is the holder of:
  (a) a Class A (Bridging) visa; or
  (b) a Class B (Bridging) visa.
020.212 The applicant wishes to leave and re-enter Australia during:
  (a) the processing of an application for a substantive visa that has not
been finally determined; or
  (b) proceedings for judicial review of a decision to refuse a visa;
and the Minister is satisfied that the applicant's reasons for wishing to
do so are substantial.
020.213 The applicant's return to Australia would not be contrary to the
public interest.
020.22 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
020.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria set out in clauses
020.211 and 020.212.
020.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
020.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
020.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance.
(NOTE: The applicant must be an eligible non-citizen at the time of grant:
see the Act, s. 73.)
020.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
020.511 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
a substantive visa-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect:
    (i) on grant; or
    (ii) when the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder ceases; and
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) if the Minister's decision in respect of the substantive visa
application is to grant a visa-on the grant of the visa; or
    (ii) if the Minister's decision in respect of that application is to
refuse to grant a visa-28 days after the holder is notified of that
refusal; or
    (iii) if the substantive visa application is refused and the holder
applies for merits review of that refusal-28 days after notification of the
decision of:
      (A) the review authority; or
      (B) if the holder has the right to apply to another review authority
for merits review of the decision of that review authority and so
applies-28 days after notification of the decision of that other review
authority; or
    (iv) if the holder withdraws his or her application for a substantive
visa or an application to a review authority-28 days after that withdrawal;
or
  (v) the grant of another bridging visa to the holder in respect of the
same application for a substantive visa; or
  (vi) if the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder is cancelled-that
cancellation; and
  (c) permitting the holder to travel to and enter Australia until:
    (i) a date specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) the visa ceases as set out in subparagraph (b) (i), (ii), (iii),
        (iv) (v) or (vi), as the case requires.
020.512 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
judicial review of a decision-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect:
    (i) on grant; or
    (ii) when the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder ceases; and
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) 28 days after the judicial review proceedings (including proceedings
on appeal, if any) are completed; or
    (ii) if the holder withdraws his or her application for judicial
review-28 days after that withdrawal; or
    (iii) the grant of another bridging visa in respect of the same
application for judicial review; or
    (iii) if the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder is
cancelled-that cancellation; and
  (c) permitting the holder to travel to and enter Australia until:
    (i) a date specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) the visa ceases as set out in subparagraph (b) (i), (ii), (iii) or
        (iv), as the case requires.
020.6 CONDITIONS
020.611 Whichever of conditions 8101, 8102, 8103, 8104, 8105, 8107, 8108
and 8111 applies to the visa held by the holder at the time of
application..
020.612 In the case of a visa granted to a person who is an applicant for a
protection visa: Nil.
020.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
020.711 Visa label attached to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 030-BRIDGING VISA C
030.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Criminal detention" and "compelling need to work" are defined in
regulation 1.03. For "eligible non-citizen" see regulation 2.20. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
030.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
030.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
030.211 The applicant does not hold a bridging visa Class E and has not
held a bridging visa Class E since last holding a substantive visa.
030.212 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3), (4)
or (5).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa; and
  (b) the applicant has made a valid application for a substantive visa at
the same time and on the same form as the bridging visa application; and
  (c) the application has not been finally determined.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she holds a bridging visa Class C that is subject to condition
8101; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant has a compelling need to
work.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she has left and re-entered Australia; and
  (b) immediately before he or she left Australia, he or she was the holder
of a bridging visa class C; and
  (c) that bridging visa ceased under subsection 82 (8) of the Act at the
time he or she left Australia; and
  (d) that bridging visa would not have ceased otherwise than under that
subsection.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she applied for a substantive visa and the application was
refused; and
  (b) he or she has applied, within the time limit to do so, for judicial
review of that refusal; and
  (c) at the time of that application, he or she held a bridging visa class
C; and
  (d) the judicial review proceedings (including proceedings on appeal, if
any) are not completed.
030.22 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
030.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 030.211
to 030.212.
030.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
030.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
030.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance.
(NOTE: The applicant must be an eligible non-citizen at the time of grant:
see the Act, s. 73.)
030.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
030.511 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
a substantive visa-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect:
    (i) on grant; or
    (ii) when the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder ceases; and
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) if the Minister's decision in respect of the substantive visa
application is to grant a visa-on the grant of the visa; or
    (ii) if the Minister's decision in respect of that application is to
refuse to grant a visa-28 days after the holder is notified of that
refusal; or
    (iii) if the substantive visa application is refused and the holder
applies for merits review of that refusal-28 days after notification of the
decision of:
      (A) the review authority; or
      (B) if the holder has the right to apply to another review authority
for merits review of the decision of that review authority and so
applies-28 days after notification of the decision of that other review
authority; or
    (iv) the grant of another bridging visa to the holder in respect of the
same application for a substantive visa; or
  (v) if the holder withdraws his or her application for a substantive visa
or an application to a review authority-28 days after that withdrawal.
030.512 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
judicial review of a decision-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect:
    (i) on grant; or
    (ii) when the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder ceases; and
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) 28 days after the judicial review proceedings (including proceedings
on appeal, if any) are completed; or
    (ii) if the holder withdraws his or her application for judicial
review-28 days after that withdrawal;
    (iii) the grant of another bridging visa to the holder in respect of the
same application for judicial review; or
    (iv) if the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder is
cancelled-that cancellation.
030.513 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen referred to in
subclause 030.212 (4)-bridging visa coming into effect on grant and
permitting the holder to remain in Australia until the day on which the
bridging visa Class C held by the non-citizen before he or she left
Australia would have ceased.
030.6 CONDITIONS
030.611 In the case of a visa granted to an applicant who meets the
requirements of subclause 030.212 (3): Nil.
030.612 In any other case: condition 8101.
030.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
030.711 No evidence need be given unless the visa holder asks for it.
030.712 If evidence is given, to be given by a visa label attached to a
passport.
SUBCLASS 040-BRIDGING VISA (PROSPECTIVE APPLICANT)
040.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Criminal detention" is defined in regulation 1.03. For "eligible
non-citizen" see regulation 2.20. No interpretation provisions specific to
this Part.)
040.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
040.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
040.211 The applicant is:
  (a) an unlawful non-citizen; or
  (b) the holder of a visa that will cease within the next 3 working days
after the day of application.
040.212 Either:
  (a) the application is taken to be a valid application for a bridging visa
Class D under regulation 2.22; or
  (b) the applicant has attended at an office of Immigration for the purpose
of making an application for a substantive visa.
040.213 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant:
  (a) has attempted to make a valid application for a substantive visa and
is unable to do so; and
  (b) will be able to make a valid application for a substantive visa within
5 working days.
040.214 The applicant has not previously been granted 2 bridging visas of
subclass 040 since he or she last held a substantive visa.
040.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
040.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria set out in
subdivision 040.21.
040.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
040.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
040.411 The applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration
clearance.
(NOTE: The applicant must be an eligible non-citizen at the time of grant:
see the Act, s. 73.)
040.51 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
040.511 Bridging visa coming into effect:
  (a) on grant; or
  (b) when the substantive visa (if any) held by the holder ceases;
and remaining in effect for 5 working days after date of grant.
040.6 CONDITIONS
040.611 Condition 8101.
040.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
040.711 No evidence is to be given.
SUBCLASS 041-BRIDGING VISA (NON-APPLICANT)
041.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Criminal detention" is defined in regulation 1.03. For "eligible
non-citizen" see regulation 2.20. No interpretation provisions specific to
this Part.)
041.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
041.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
041.211 The applicant is an unlawful non-citizen.
041.212 The applicant is unable, or does not want, to apply for a
substantive visa.
041.213 An officer who is an authorised officer for the purposes of clause
050.222 is not available to interview the applicant.
041.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
041.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in subdivision
041.21.
041.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.
041.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
041.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance.
(NOTE: The applicant must be an eligible non-citizen at the time of grant:
see the Act, s. 73.)
041.51  WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
041.511 Bridging visa coming into effect upon grant and remaining in effect
for 5 working days after date of grant.
041.6 CONDITIONS
041.611 Conditions 9101 and 9300.
041.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
041.711 No evidence is to be given.
SUBCLASS 042-BRIDGING VISA (PROSPECTIVE PROTECTION VISA APPLICANT)
042.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Compelling need to work" and "criminal detention" are defined in
regulation 1.03. For "eligible non-citizen" see regulation 2.20. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
042.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
042.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
042.211 The applicant is an unlawful non-citizen.
042.212 The applicant:
  (a) has lodged a protection visa application; and
  (b) has previously applied for:
    (i) a determination of refugee status; or
    (ii) a protection visa;
  and the application has been finally determined.
042.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
042.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria set out in
subdivision 042.21.
042.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
042.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
042.411 The applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration
clearance.
(NOTE: The applicant must be an eligible non-citizen at the time of grant:
see the Act, s. 73.)
042.51 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
042.511 Bridging visa coming into effect upon grant permitting the holder
to remain in Australia until 7 days after he or she is notified whether he
or she can make a valid application for a protection visa.
(NOTE: Under ss. 46 and 48 of the Act, an application for a visa in
Australia by a non-citizen who has already been refused a visa in Australia
is not valid unless it is for a visa of a prescribed class and is made in
accordance with the regulations. For the prescribed classes and
circumstances, see r.2.12.)
042.6 CONDITIONS
042.611 Conditions 8101 and 8401.
042.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
042.711 No evidence need be given unless the visa holder asks for it.
042.712 If evidence is given, to be given by a visa label attached to a
passport.
SUBCLASS 050-BRIDGING VISA E
050.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Compelling need to work" and "criminal detention" are defined in
regulation 1.03. For "eligible non-citizen" see regulation 2.20. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
050.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
050.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
050.211 The applicant is:
  (a) an unlawful non-citizen; or
  (b) the holder of a bridging visa Class E; or
  (c) an eligible non-citizen of the kind set out in subregulation 2.20 (2),
(3), (4) or (5).
050.212. (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3),
(4), (5), (6), (7) or (8).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the Minister
is satisfied that the applicant is making, or is the subject of, acceptable
arrangements to depart Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant has made a valid application for a substantive visa and
that application has not been finally determined; or
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant will apply, within a
period allowed by the Minister for the purpose, for a substantive visa.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she has applied for judicial review of a decision; or
  (b) he or she has applied for merits review of a decision:
    (i) to cancel a visa; or
    (ii) to refuse a visa under section 501 of the Act (which deals with
refusal of visas to persons not of good character, etc.); or
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant will make an application
of a kind referred to in paragraph (b).
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she held a visa that was cancelled under subsection 140 (1) or
(3) of the Act (which deals with cancellation because of the cancellation
of a visa held by another person); and
  (b) either:
    (i) the other person whose visa was cancelled has applied for review of
the decision to cancel his or her visa; or
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that that other person will make an
application of that kind.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she is
the subject of a request to the Minister under section 345, 351, 391, 417
or 454 of the Act (which deal with the Minister's power to substitute a
more favourable decision for the decision of a review authority) that has
not been decided.
  (7) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she:
  (a) is in criminal detention; and
  (b) if he or she has been sentenced to imprisonment or periodic detention,
has actually served a period of imprisonment; and
  (c) no criminal justice stay certificate or criminal justice stay warrant
about the non-citizen is in force.
  (8) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she is
the holder of a bridging visa Class E that is subject to condition 8101 and
the Minister is satisfied that the applicant has a compelling need to work.
050.213 (1) Subject to subclause (2), the Minister is satisfied that if a
bridging visa is granted to the applicant, the applicant will abide by the
conditions (if any) imposed on it.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant who:
  (a) is not in immigration detention; and
  (b) has applied for a substantive visa;
if the application has not been finally determined.
050.214 A security has been lodged by the applicant, if asked for by an
officer authorised under section 269 of the Act (which deals with security
for compliance with the Act).
050.22 Criteria to be met at the time of decision
050.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria set out in clauses
050.211 to 050.214.
050.222 (1) Unless subclause (2) applies to the applicant, the applicant
has been interviewed by an officer who is authorised by the Secretary for
the purposes of this clause.
  (2) This subclause applies to an applicant who:
  (a) is not in immigration detention; and
  (b) has made a valid application for a substantive visa; and
  (c) holds, or has held, a bridging visa Class E since he or she last held
a substantive visa; and
  (d) is not seeking to be granted a further bridging visa Class E that is
subject to conditions other than those that apply to the bridging visa
class E that the applicant currently holds or last held.
(NOTE: In certain circumstances, a bridging visa Class E may also be taken
to have been granted without application to a non-citizen who is in
immigration detention. See the Act, s. 73. In addition the Minister may
grant a bridging visa Class E to non-citizens who are in criminal detention
or are unwilling or unable to make a valid application: see r. 2.25.)
050.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
050.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
050.411 The applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration
clearance.
(NOTE: The applicant must be an eligible non-citizen at the time of grant:
see the Act, s. 73.)
050.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
050.511 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
a substantive visa-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect on grant; and:
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) if the Minister's decision in respect of the substantive visa
application is to grant a visa-on the grant of the visa; or
    (ii) if the Minister's decision in respect of that application is to
refuse to grant a visa-28 days after the holder is notified of that
refusal; or
    (iii) if the substantive visa application is refused and the holder
applies for merits review of that refusal-28 days after notification of the
decision of:
      (A) the review authority; or
      (B) if the holder has the right to apply to another review authority
for merits review of the decision of that review authority and so
applies-28 days after notification of the decision of that other review
authority; or
    (iv) if the holder withdraws his or her application for a substantive
visa or an application to a review authority-28 days after that withdrawal;
or
  (v) the grant of a further bridging visa to the holder in respect of his
or her substantive visa application.
050.512 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
judicial review of a decision-bridging visa:
  (a) coming into effect on grant; and:
  (b) permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
    (i) if another bridging visa is granted to the holder in respect of his
or her judicial review application-on the grant of that bridging visa; or
    (ii) 28 days after the judicial review proceedings (including
proceedings on appeal, if any) are completed; or
    (iii) if the holder withdraws his or her application for judicial
review-28 days after that withdrawal.
050.513 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who has applied for
merits review of a decision to cancel a visa-visa coming into effect on
grant permitting the holder to remain in Australia until:
  (a) 28 days after notification of the review decision; or
  (b) if another bridging visa is granted to the holder in respect of his or
her merits review application-the grant of that bridging visa; or
  (c) if the decision to cancel the substantive visa is reversed-on the
reversal of that decision.
050.514 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen to whom subsection
140 (1) or (3) of the Act (which deal with cancellation as a result of
cancellation of a visa held by another non-citizen) applies, if the other
person whose visa was cancelled has applied for review of that cancellation
decision-visa coming into effect on grant permitting the holder to remain
in Australia until:
  (a) 28 days after notification of the review decision; or
  (b) if another bridging visa is granted to the holder in respect of that
merits review application-the grant of that bridging visa; or
  (c) if the decision to cancel the substantive visa is reversed-on the
reversal of that decision.
050.515 (1) In the case of a visa granted, or taken to have been granted,
to a non-citizen who is in criminal detention-visa coming into effect on
grant and ceasing on:
  (a) the non-citizen's unconditional release from criminal detention; or
  (b) the non-citizen's release on bail; or
  (c) if the non-citizen is in prison:
    (i) the non-citizen's completing a sentence of imprisonment; or
    (ii) subject to subclause (2), the non-citizen's release on parole; or
    (iii) subject to subclause (2), the non-citizen's release from
imprisonment subject to an order for periodic detention; or
    (iv) the non-citizen's escaping from prison; or
  (d) the signing of a deportation order against the non-citizen; or
  (e) the grant of another visa to the holder; or
  (f) if the non-citizen is subject to an order for periodic detention-the
non-citizen's breaching a condition of that order.
  (2) Subparagraphs (1) (b) (ii) and (iii) apply only in the case of a
non-citizen who has actually served a part of a term of imprisonment.
050.516 In the case of a visa that is taken to have been granted by
operation of section 75 of the Act (which deals with applications for
bridging visas which the Minister does not decide within a short
period)-visa coming into effect on grant permitting the applicant to remain
in Australia for:
  (a) 5 working days from date of grant; or
  (b) if within 5 working days of grant the holder shows an officer a ticket
for departure from Australia-14 days from date of grant.
050.517 In any other case-visa coming into effect on grant and ceasing on a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
050.6 CONDITIONS
050.611 In the case of a visa granted to a non-citizen who:
  (a) applied for a substantive visa at the same time and on the same form
as he or she applied for the bridging visa; and
  (b) is not in immigration detention;
and who:
  (c) at the time he or she made the application referred to in paragraph
        (a), held a bridging visa class E-any of conditions 8101, 8104, 8201, 8401,
8402, 8505 or 8506 that apply to that bridging visa; or
  (d) is an unlawful non-citizen but has held a bridging visa class E since
he or she last held a substantive visa-condition 8402 and any of conditions
8101, 8104, 8201, 8505 or 8506 that applied to that bridging visa.
050.612 In the case of a visa that is taken to have been granted by
operation of section 75 of the Act-conditions 8101, 8201, 8402, 8506 and
8509.
050.613 In the case of a visa granted to an applicant who meets the
requirements of subclause 050.212 (8)-any 1 or more of conditions 8104,
8201, 8401, 8403, 8505, 8506, 8507, 8508, 8510, 8511 and 8512 may be
imposed.
050.614 In any other case-any 1 or more of conditions 8101, 8104, 8201,
8401, 8403, 8505, 8506, 8507, 8508, 8501, 8511 and 8512 may be imposed.
050.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
050.711 No evidence need be given unless the visa holder asks for it.
050.712 If evidence is given, to be given by a visa label attached to a
passport.
SUBCLASS 100-SPOUSE
100.1 INTERPRETATION
100.11 In this Part:
"intended spouse" means the Australian citizen, Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen referred to in subclause 100.211
(3).
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen", "guardian", "parent" and "spouse"
are defined in regulation 1.03.)
100.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
100.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
100.211 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) The applicant is the spouse of:
  (a) an Australian citizen; or
  (b) an Australian permanent resident; or
  (c) an eligible New Zealand citizen.
(NOTE: "Spouse" includes a de facto spouse-see the definition of "spouse"
in regulation 1.03.)
  (3) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant intends to marry:
    (i) an Australian citizen; or
    (ii) an Australian permanent resident; or
    (iii) an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) the intended marriage will, if it takes place, be a valid marriage for
the purposes of section 12 of the Act.
(NOTE: If the applicant is an applicant referred to in paragraph 100.211
(3), the marriage must have taken place before the applicant can be granted
a visa of this subclass: see clause 100.223.)
100.212 (1) If the applicant is an applicant referred to in subclause
100.211 (2), the applicant is sponsored:
  (a) if the applicant's spouse has turned 18-by that spouse; or
  (b) if the applicant's spouse has not turned 18-by a parent or guardian of
that spouse who:
    (i) has turned 18; and
    (ii) is:
      (A) an Australian citizen; or
      (B) an Australian permanent resident; or
  (C) an eligible New Zealand citizen.
  (2) If the applicant is an applicant referred to in subclause 100.211 (3),
the applicant is sponsored:
  (a) if the applicant's intended spouse has turned 18-by that intended
spouse; or
  (b) if the applicant's intended spouse has not turned 18-by a parent or
guardian of that intended spouse who:
    (i) has turned 18; and
    (ii) is:
      (A) an Australian citizen; or
      (B) an Australian permanent resident; or
      (C) an eligible New Zealand citizen.
100.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
100.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 100.211.
100.222 The sponsorship referred to in clause 100.212 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
100.223 If the applicant is an applicant referred to in subclause 100.211
(3), the marriage referred to in that subclause has taken place.
100.224 The Minister is satisfied that the marital relationship between the
applicant and the applicant's spouse is genuine and continuing.
100.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
100.226 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009.
100.227 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
100.228 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5009 and 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
100.229 If:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 100 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
100.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
100.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
100.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 100.21.
100.312 The sponsorship referred to in clause 100.212 of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria includes sponsorship of the applicant.
100.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
100.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 100 visa.
100.322 The sponsorship referred to in clause 100.312 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
100.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
100.324 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009.
100.325 If the Minister requires an assurance of support in respect of the
person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support given in respect
of that person, and that assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been given in relation to the applicant,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
100.326 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 100 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
100.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
100.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
100.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
100.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
100.6 CONDITIONS
100.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
100.612 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, condition 8502 may be
imposed.
100.613 If the applicant meets the secondary criteria, either or both of
conditions 8515 and 8502 may be imposed.
100.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
100.71 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 101-CHILD
101.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen", "dependent child" and "spouse" are
defined in regulation 1.03; and "adoption" is defined in regulation 1.04.
There are no interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
101.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
101.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
101.211 (1) The applicant is a dependent child of an Australian citizen,
Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen and either:
  (a) is the natural child of that Australian citizen, Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen; or
  (b) was adopted overseas and meets the requirements of subclause (2).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she was
adopted overseas by a person who, when the applicant was adopted, was not
an Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New
Zealand citizen, but who subsequently became an Australian citizen,
Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen.
101.212 The applicant is sponsored by a person who:
  (a) has turned 18; and
  (b) is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) is either:
    (i) the Australian citizen or Australian permanent resident or eligible
New Zealand citizen referred to in subclause 101.211 (1) or (2), as the
case requires; or
    (ii) the cohabiting spouse of that Australian citizen, Australian
permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen.
101.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
101.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion specified in
clause 101.211.
101.222 The sponsorship referred to in clause 101.212 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
101.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
101.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009.
101.225 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
101.226 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
101.227 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, meets special return
criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
101.228 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 101 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
101.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
101.31 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
101.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 101.21.
101.312 The sponsorship referred to in clause 101.212 of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria includes sponsorship of the applicant.
101.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
101.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 101 visa.
101.322 The sponsorship referred to in clause 101.312 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
101.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
101.324 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies the special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and
5009.
101.325 If the Minister requires an assurance of support in respect of the
person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support given in respect
of that person, and that assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been given in relation to the applicant,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
101.326 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 101 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
101.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
101.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
101.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
101.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
101.6 CONDITIONS
101.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
101.612 Either or both of conditions 8515 and 8502 may be imposed.
101.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
101.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 102-ADOPTION
102.1 INTERPRETATION
102.111 In this Part:
  "adoptive parent", in relation to an applicant, means the person referred
to in paragraph 102.211 (2) (b);
  "child for adoption" means an applicant referred to in clause 102.211 (3);
  "prospective adoptive parent", in relation to an applicant, means the
unmarried person referred to in subparagraph 102.211 (3) (c) (i), or each
of the spouses referred to in subparagraph 102.211 (3) (c) (ii), as the
case requires.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03, and
"adoption" is defined in regulation 1.04.)
102.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
102.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
102.211 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant has not turned 18; and
  (b) the applicant was adopted overseas by a person who:
    (i) was, at the time of the adoption, an Australian citizen, an
Australian permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
    (ii) had been residing overseas for more than 12 months at the time of
the application; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that the residence overseas by the adoptive
parent was not contrived to circumvent the requirements for entry to
Australia of children for adoption; and
  (d) the adoptive parent has lawfully acquired full and permanent parental
rights by the adoption; and
  (e) the relevant authorities of the overseas country have approved the
departure of the applicant to Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant has not turned 18; and
  (b) the applicant is resident in an overseas country; and
  (c) either:
    (i) an unmarried person who is an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen has undertaken in
writing to adopt the applicant; or
    (ii) spouses, at least one of whom is an Australian citizen, an
Australian permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen, have
undertaken in writing to adopt the applicant; and
  (d) the child welfare authorities of an Australian State or Territory have
approved the prospective adoptive parent or parents as suitable adoptive
parents for the applicant; and
  (e) the relevant authorities of the overseas country have approved the
departure of the applicant:
    (i) for adoption in Australia; or
    (ii) in the custody of the prospective adoptive parent or parents;
as the case requires.
102.212 The applicant is sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen who is:
  (a) in the case of an applicant who is a child for adoption-a prospective
adoptive parent of the child; or
  (b) in the case of an applicant who is an adopted child(-an adoptive
parent of the child.
102.213 The laws relating to adoption of the country in which the child is
normally resident have been complied with.
102.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
102.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
clauses 102.211 and 102.213.
102.222 The sponsorship referred to in clause 102.212 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
102.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
102.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and 5010.
102.225 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
102.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
102.227 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 102 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
102.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
102.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
102.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 102.21.
102.312 The sponsorship referred to in clause 102.212 of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria includes sponsorship of the applicant.
102.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
102.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 102 visa.
102.322 The sponsorship referred to in clause 102.312 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
102.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
102.324 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies the special return criteria 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
102.325 If the Minister requires an assurance of support in respect of the
person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support given in respect
of that person, and that assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been given in relation to the applicant,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
102.326 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 102 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
102.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
102.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
102.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
102.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
102.6 CONDITIONS
102.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
102.612 Either or both of conditions 8515 and 8502 may be imposed.
102.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
102.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 103-PARENT
103.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen", "aged parent", "close relative",
"guardian", "parent", "settled" and "spouse" are defined in regulation
1.03, and "balance of family test" is defined in regulation 1.05. There are
no interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
103.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
103.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
103.211 The applicant is a parent of a person who is:
  (a) a settled Australian citizen; or
  (b) a settled Australian permanent resident; or
  (c) a settled eligible New Zealand citizen.
103.212 (1) The applicant is sponsored in accordance with subclause (2) or
(3).
  (2) If the child has turned 18, the applicant is sponsored by:
  (a) the child; or
  (b) the child's cohabiting spouse, if that spouse:
    (i) has turned 18; and
    (ii) is:
      (A) a settled Australian citizen; or
      (B) a settled Australian permanent resident; or
      (C) a settled eligible New Zealand citizen.
  (3) If the child has not turned 18, the applicant is sponsored by:
  (a) the child's cohabiting spouse, if that spouse:
    (i) has turned 18; and
    (ii) is:
      (A) a settled Australian citizen; or
      (B) a settled Australian permanent resident; or
      (C) a settled eligible New Zealand citizen; or
  (b) a person who:
    (i) is a close relative or guardian of the child; and
    (ii) has turned 18; and
    (iii) is:
      (A) a settled Australian citizen; or
      (B) a settled Australian permanent resident; or
      (C) a settled eligible New Zealand citizen; or
  (c) if the child has a cohabiting spouse but the spouse has not turned
18-a person who:
    (i) is a close relative or guardian of the child's spouse; and
    (ii) has turned 18; and
    (iii) is:
      (A) a settled Australian citizen; or
      (B) a settled Australian permanent resident; or
      (C) a settled eligible New Zealand citizen; or
  (d) a community organisation.
  (4) In this clause, "the child" means the settled Australian citizen,
settled Australian permanent resident or settled eligible New Zealand
citizen referred to in clause 103.211.
103.213 The applicant satisfies the balance of family test.
103.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
103.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion specified in
clause 103.211.
103.222 The sponsorship referred to in clause 103.212 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
103.223 The applicant continues to satisfy the balance of family test.
103.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
103.225 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies:
  (a) in the case of an applicant who is an aged parent-special return
criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006 and 5008 to 5010; or
  (b) in the case of an applicant other than an aged parent-special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007 and 5008 to 5010.
103.226 An assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been
given, and has been accepted by the Minister.
103.227 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies:
    (i) in the case of an applicant who is an aged parent-special return
criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006 and 5008 to 5010; and
    (ii) in the case of an applicant other than an aged parent-special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
103.228 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 103 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
103.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
103.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
103.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 103.21.
103.312 The sponsorship referred to in clause 103.212 of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria includes sponsorship of the applicant.
103.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
103.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 103 visa.
103.322 The sponsorship referred to in clause 103.312 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
103.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
103.324 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies:
  (a) in the case of a member of a family unit of an aged parent-special
return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006 and 5008 to 5010; and
  (b) in the case of a member of a family unit of other than an aged
parent-special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
103.325 Either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support given in respect
of the person who satisfies the primary criteria, and that assurance has
been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been given in relation to the applicant,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
103.326 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 103 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
103.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
103.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Health Services)
Charge Act 1991 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
103.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
103.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
103.6 CONDITIONS
103.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
103.612 Either or both of conditions 8515 and 8502 may be imposed.
103.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
103.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 104-PREFERENTIAL FAMILY
104.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen", "aged dependent relative",
"settled", "special need relative", and "spouse" are defined in regulation
1.03; "orphan relative" is defined in regulation 1.14; and "remaining
relative" is defined in regulation 1.15. There are no interpretation
provisions specific to this Part.)
104.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
104.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
104.211 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is an aged dependent relative, or a remaining relative,
of a person (in this subclause called "the Australian relative") who is:
    (i) an Australian citizen; or
    (ii) an Australian permanent resident; or
    (iii) an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) the applicant is sponsored:
    (i) if the Australian relative has turned 18 and is a settled Australian
citizen, a settled Australian permanent resident or a settled eligible New
Zealand citizen-by the Australian relative; or
    (ii) by the spouse of the Australian relative, if the spouse:
      (A) cohabits with the Australian relative; and
      (B) is a settled Australian citizen or a settled Australian permanent
resident or a settled eligible New Zealand citizen; and
      (C) has turned 18.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is an orphan relative, or a special need relative, of a
person (in this subclause called "the Australian relative") who is:
    (i) an Australian citizen; or
    (ii) an Australian permanent resident; or
    (iii) an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) the applicant is sponsored:
    (i) if the Australian relative has turned 18-by the Australian relative;
or
    (ii) by the spouse of the Australian relative, if the spouse:
      (A) cohabits with the Australian relative; and
      (B) is an Australian citizen or an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen; and
      (C) has turned 18.
104.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
104.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion specified in
clause 104.211.
104.222 The sponsorship referred to in clause 104.211 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
104.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
104.224 The applicant meets:
  (a) in the case of an applicant who is an aged dependent relative-special
return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009; or
  (b) in the case of an applicant who is an orphan relative or a special
need relative-special return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009; or
  (c) in the case of an applicant who is a remaining relative-special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
104.225 An assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been
given, and has been accepted by the Minister.
104.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 104 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) meets:
    (i) in the case of an applicant who is an aged dependent
relative-special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009; or
    (ii) in the case of an applicant who is an orphan relative or a special
need relative-special return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009; or
    (iii) in the case of an applicant who is a remaining relative-special re
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 104 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
104.227 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 104 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
104.228 If the applicant is an orphan relative, the Minister is satisfied
that the grant of the visa would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
104.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
104.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
104.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
Subdivision 104.21.
104.312 The sponsorship referred to in clause 104.211 of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria includes sponsorship of the applicant.
104.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
104.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who is the holder of a subclass 104 visa.
104.322 The sponsorship referred to in clause 104.312 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
104.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
104.324 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies:
  (a) in the case of an applicant who is a member of the family unit of an
aged dependent relative-special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006,
5008 and 5009; or
  (b) in the case of an applicant who is a member of the family unit of an
orphan relative or a special need relative-special return criteria 5001,
5008 and 5009; or
  (c) in the case of an applicant who is a member of the family unit of a
remaining relative-special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and
5009.
104.325 Either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support given in respect
of the person who satisfies the primary criteria, and that assurance has
been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been given in relation to the applicant,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
104.326 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 104 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
104.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
104.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Health Services)
Charge Act 1991 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
104.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
104.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
104.6 CONDITIONS
104.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
104.612 Either or both of conditions 8515 and 8502 may be imposed.
104.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
104.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 105-CONCESSIONAL FAMILY
105.1 INTERPRETATION
105.11 In this Part:
"usual occupation", in relation to an applicant, has the meaning set out in
subregulation 2.26 (5).
105.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
105.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
105.211 The applicant:
  (a) is a brother, sister, nephew, niece or parent; or
  (b) a natural or adopted child(other than a dependent child);
of a person (in this clause called "the sponsor") who has turned 18 and who
is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an eligible
New Zealand citizen.
105.212 The applicant is sponsored by the sponsor.
105.213 The applicant is of working age.
105.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
105.221 The sponsorship referred to in clause 105.212 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
105.222 The applicant has the qualifying score when assessed in relation to
the visa under Subdivision B of Division 3 of Part 2 of the Act.
(NOTE: The Subdivision mentioned (ss. 92 to 96) provides for the
application of a "points" system, under which applicants for relevant visas
are given an assessed score based on the prescribed number of points for
particular attributes, which is assessed against the relevant pool mark and
pass mark. The prescribed points and the manner of their allocation are
provided for in Division 2 of Part 2 (regulations 2.26 and 2.27), and
Schedule 6, of these Regulations. In certain circumstances, attributes of
the spouse of an applicant may be taken into account (regulation 2.27).
Pool marks and pass marks are set from time to time by the Minister by
notice in the Gazette (s. 96).)
105.223 (1) Subject to subclause (2), the applicant continues to satisfy
the criterion specified in clause 105.213.
  (2) If the applicant satisfies the criterion specified in clause 105.222
by reason of the operation of regulation 2.27, the spouse of the applicant
was, at the time of application, of working age.
105.224 (1) Subject to subclause (2), if the usual occupation of the
applicant is an occupation included in the Occupations Requiring English
List, the applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant has
proficiency in English of at least the standard required for the award of
15 points on the language skill factor of the general points test specified
in Part 3 of Schedule 6.
  (2) If:
  (a) the applicant satisfies the criterion specified in clause 105.222 by
reason of the operation of regulation 2.27; and
  (b) the usual occupation of the spouse of the applicant is an occupation
included in the Occupations Requiring English List;
the spouse of the applicant satisfies the Minister that the spouse of the
applicant has proficiency in English of at least the standard required for
the award of 15 points on the language skill factor of the general points
test specified in Part 3 of Schedule 6.
105.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
105.226 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to5010.
105.227 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
105.228 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 105 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 105 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
105.229 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18; and
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 105 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
105.230 Approval of the application would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 105 visas granted in a financial year exceeding
the maximum number of subclass 105 visas, as determined by Gazette Notice,
that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes (including subclass 105)
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in a
financial year.
105.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
105.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
105.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 105.21.
105.312 The sponsorship referred to in clause 105.212 in respect of the
person who satisfies the primary criteria includes sponsorship of the
applicant.
105.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
105.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 105 visa.
105.322 The sponsorship referred to in clause 105.312 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
105.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006 and
4009 and 4010.
105.324 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
105.325 Either:
  (a) the applicant is included in any assurance of support required in
respect of the person who satisfies the primary criteria, and that
assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the
applicant, and has been accepted by the Minister.
105.326 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 105 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
105.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
105.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
105.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
105.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
105.6 CONDITIONS
105.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
105.612 If the applicant satisfies the secondary criteria, either or both
of conditions 8514 and 8502 may be imposed.
105.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
105.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 120-LABOUR AGREEMENT
120.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
120.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
120.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
120.211 The applicant:
  (a) seeks to enter Australia to work in accordance with a labour
agreement; and
  (b) has qualifications and experience that are suitable for the position
to be taken by the applicant under the labour agreement; and
  (c) unless exceptional circumstances apply, has not turned 55.
120.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
120.221 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant is to be employed or
engaged in Australia in accordance with the standards for wages and working
conditions under relevant Australian legislation and awards.
120.222 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if the applicant has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
120.223 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
120.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 120 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 120 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
120.225 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 120 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
120.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
120.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
120.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 120.21.
120.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
120.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 120 visa.
120.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
120.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
120.324 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the family
unit member who is the holder of a subclass 120 visa, either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support, and the
assurance of support has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the
applicant, and has been accepted by the Minister.
120.325 If the applicant is the dependant child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 120 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
120.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
120.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
120.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
120.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from date of grant.
120.6 CONDITIONS
120.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose..
120.62 Condition 8502 may be imposed .
120.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
120.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 121-EMPLOYER NOMINATION
121.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
121.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
121.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
121.211 The applicant:
  (a) has been nominated under regulation 5.19 by an employer in respect of
an approved appointment in the business of that employer; and
  (b) is a highly skilled person within the meaning of regulation 5.19 in
relation to that approved appointment; and
  (c) unless the approved appointment is exceptional, has not turned 55.
121.212 (1) The period that has elapsed since the approved appointment
became an approved appointment does not exceed:
  (a) 3 months; or
  (b) if in a particular case the Minister allows a longer period under
subclause (2), that longer period.
  (2) The Minister may in a particular case allow a longer time than 3
months under subclause (1) if the Minister is satisfied:
  (a) on written application by the applicant, that there are exceptional
circumstances affecting that applicant; or
  (b) on written application by the employer, that, if the applicant for the
visa were to take up the approved appointment, any 2 of the following
results would occur:
    (i) expansion of Australian business and export activity;
    (ii) generation of employment in Australia;
    (iii) introduction and transfer to Australia of new skills and
technology;
    (iv) improvement of employment and training opportunities for
Australians.
121.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
121.221 The nomination referred to in clause 121.211 is still in force.
121.222 (1) The period that has elapsed since the approved appointment
became an approved appointment does not exceed:
  (a) 12 months; or
  (b) if in a particular case the Minister allows a longer period under
subclause (2), that longer period.
  (2) The Minister may in a particular case allow a longer period than 12
months under subclause (1) if the Minister is satisfied:
  (a) on written application by the applicant, that there are exceptional
circumstances affecting that applicant; or
  (b) on written application by the employer, that, if the applicant for the
visa were to take up the approved appointment, any 2 of the following
results would occur:
    (i) expansion of Australian business and export activity;
    (ii) generation of employment in Australia;
    (iii) introduction and transfer to Australia of new skills and
technology;
    (iv) improvement of employment and training opportunities for
Australians.
121.223 The Minister is satisfied that the approved appointment will
provide the employment referred to in the relevant employer nomination.
121.224 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if the applicant has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and 5009.
121.225 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
121.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 121 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 121 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
121.227 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 121 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
121.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria)
121.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
121.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 121.21.
121.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
121.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 121 visa.
121.322 The applicant satisfies
  (a) public interest criteria 4001 to 4004, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister is
satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the applicant to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
121.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
121.324 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria, either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support, and that
assurance of support has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the
applicant, and has been accepted by the Minister.
121.325 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 121 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to the
applicant.
121.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
121.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
121.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
121.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
121.6 CONDITIONS
121.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
121.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
121.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
121.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 124-DISTINGUISHED TALENT (AUSTRALIAN SUPPORT)
124.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
124.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
124.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
124.211 The applicant produces a nomination, testifying to his or her
standing in an occupation, profession or activity, from
  (a) an Australian citizen; or
  (b) an Australian permanent resident; or
  (c) an eligible New Zealand citizen; or;
  (d) an Australian organisation.
having a national reputation in relation to that occupation, profession, or
activity.
124.212 Either:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) has an exceptional record of achievement in an occupation,
profession or activity; and
    (ii) would be an asset to the Australian community; and
    (iii) would have no difficulty in obtaining employment or in becoming
established independently in Australia in that occupation, profession or
activity; or
  (b) the applicant has a record of outstanding achievement, and is still
prominent, in the arts or sport.
124.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
124.221 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
124.222 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
124.223 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
124.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 124 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 124 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4010; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
124.225 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 124 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
124.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
124.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
124.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 124.21.
124.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
124.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 124 visa.
124.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006 and
4009 and 4010.
124.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
124.324 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the person who
satisfied the primary criteria, either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support, and that
assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the
applicant, and has been accepted by the Minister.
124.325 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 124 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
124.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
124.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
124.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
124.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from date of grant.
124.6 CONDITIONS
124.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
124.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
124.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
124.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 125-DISTINGUISHED TALENT AND SPECIAL SERVICE (INDEPENDENT)
125.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
125.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
125.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
125.211 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3) or
(4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she:
  (a) has an exceptional record of achievement in an occupation or
profession; and
  (b) would be an asset to the Australian community; and
  (c) would have no difficulty obtaining employment or becoming established
independently in Australia in that occupation or profession.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she has
a record of outstanding achievement, and is still prominent in the arts or
sport.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if, in the
opinion of the Minister acting on the advice of:
  (a)  the Minister responsible for an intelligence or security agency
within the meaning of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act
1979; or
  (b) the Director-General of Security;
the applicant has provided specialised assistance to the Australian
Government in matters of security.
125.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
125.221 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
125.222 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
125.223 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
125.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 125 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 125 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4010; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
125.225 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 125 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit would not prejudice the rights and
interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access
to, the child.
125.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are family unit
members of a person who satisfies the Primary Criteria)
125.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
125.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and has made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 125.21.
125.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
125.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is a holder of a
subclass 125 visa.
125.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
125.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
125.324 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria, either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support, and that
assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the
applicant, and has been accepted by the Minister.
125.325 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 125 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
125.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
125.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.).
125.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
125.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
125.6 CONDITIONS
125.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
125.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
125.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
125.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 126-INDEPENDENT
126.1 INTERPRETATION
126.11 In this Part:
"usual occupation", in relation to an applicant, has the meaning set out in
subregulation 2.26 (5).
(NOTE: "working age" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
126.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
126.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
126.211 The applicant is of working age.
126.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
126.221 The applicant has the qualifying score when assessed in relation to
the visa under Subdivision B of Division 3 of Part 2 of the Act.
(NOTE: The Subdivision of the Act mentioned (ss.  92 to 96) provides for
the application of a "points" system under which applicants for relevant
visas are given an assessed score based on the prescribed number of points
for particular attributes, which is assessed against the relevant pool mark
and pass mark. The prescribed points and the manner of their allocation are
provided for in Division 2 of Part 2 (see regulation 2.26) and Schedule 6
of these Regulations. Pool marks and pass marks are set from time to time
by the Minister by notice in the Gazette (s. 96 of the Act).)
126.222 If the usual occupation of the applicant is an occupation included
in the Occupations Requiring English List, the applicant satisfies the
Minister that the applicant has proficiency in English of at least the
standard required for the award of 15 points on the language skill factor
of the general points test specified in Part 3 of Schedule 6.
126.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
126.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
126.225 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
126.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 126 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 126 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
126.227 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 126 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
126.228 Approval of the application would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 126 visas granted in a financial year exceeding
the maximum number of subclass 126 visas, as determined by Gazette Notice,
that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes (including subclass 126)
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in a
financial year.
126.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria)
126.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
126.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined aplication with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 126.21.
126.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
126.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 126 visa.
126.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
126.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
126.324 Either:
  (a) the applicant is included in any assurance of support required in
respect of the person who satisfies the primary criteria, and that
assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the
applicant, and has been accepted by the Minister.
126.325 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 126 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
126.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
126.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
126.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
126.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
126.6 CONDITIONS
126.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
126.612 If the applicant satisfies the secondary criteria, either or both
of conditions 8514 and 8502 may be imposed.
126.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
126.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 127-BUSINESS OWNER
127.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "appropriate regional authority", "AUD", "eligible business","fiscal
year" and "ownership interest"are defined in regulation 1.03, and "main
business" is defined in regulation 1.11. There are no interpretation
provisions specific to this Part.)
127.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least 1 member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
127.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
127.211 The applicant has, or has had in any 2 fiscal years in the 4 fiscal
years immediately preceding the making of the application, an ownership
interest in 1 or more businesses.
127.212 (1) The applicant has overall had a successful business career.
  (2) In any 2 fiscal years in the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the net assets of:
  (a) the applicant; or
  (b) the applicant and his or her spouse together;
in a business or businesses were not less than the equivalent of AUD300,000
in each of those years.
127.213 In any 2 fiscal years in the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding
the making of the application, the applicant, as the owner of an interest
in a main business or main businesses, maintained direct and continuous
involvement in management of that business or those businesses from day to
day and in making decisions that affected the overall direction and
performance of that business or those businesses.
127.214 If the applicant was engaged, for 2 or more of the 4 fiscal years
immediately preceding the making of the application, in a business
providing professional, technical or trade services, the applicant was
directly engaged in the provision of the services, as distinct from the
general direction of the operation of the business, for no more than half
the time spent by the applicant from day to day in the conduct of the
business.
127.215 The applicant has notified the appropriate regional authority of a
State or Territory of:
  (a) the applicant's business history; and
  (b) the applicant's intention to develop a business in that State or
Territory.
127.216 The applicant genuinely has a realistic commitment, after entry to
Australia as the holder of a subclass 127 visa:
  (a) to either:
    (i) establish an eligible business in Australia; or
    (ii) participate in an existing eligible business in Australia; and
  (b) to maintain a substantial ownership interest in that business; and
  (c) to maintain direct and continuous involvement in management of that
business from day to day and in making decisions that affect the overall
direction and performance of the business in a manner that benefits the
Australian economy.
127.217 The applicant does not have a history of involvement in business
activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in
Australia.
127.218 The applicant signs a declaration in a form approved by the
Minister that the applicant acknowledges the Government's requirements in
relation to entry to Australia as the holder of a subclass 127 visa.
127.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
127.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
clauses 127.211 to 127.217.
127.222 (1) The applicant's score on the business skills points test is not
less than the number of points that is specified for the purposes of this
paragraph by Gazette Notice.
  (2) For the purposes of sub-clause (1):
  (a) an applicant's score on the business skills points test is the sum of
the applicant's scores under:
    (i) Division 1.1 of Part 1 of Schedule 7; and
    (ii) Parts 2, 3 and 4 of that Schedule; and
  (b) an applicant's score under a Subdivision or Part of Schedule 7 is the
number of points specified in that Subdivision or Part in relation to the
attribute described in the Subdivision or Part that relates to the
applicant:
    (i) in the case of an attribute specified in Part 3 of Schedule 7-at the
time when the application is decided; and
    (ii) in the case of any other attribute-at the time when the application
is made;
and if there is more than 1 attribute of that kind, the highest single
number of points so specified; and
  (c) in determining the score of an applicant under Part 4 of Schedule 7,
only assets available for transfer, and capable of being transferred, to
Australia within 2 years of grant of a business skills visa to the
applicant are to be taken into account.
127.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
127.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
127.225 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 127 visa:
  (a) is a person who satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010; and
  (b) if the person has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 127 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
127.226 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the subclass 127 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
127.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
127.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
127.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 127.21.
127.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
127.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is a holder of a
subclass 127 visa.
127.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
127.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
127.324 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 127 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
127.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
127.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
127.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
127.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
127.6 CONDITIONS
127.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
127.612 Either or both of conditions 8502 and 8515 may be imposed.
127.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
127.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 128-SENIOR EXECUTIVE
128.1 INTERPRETATION
128.111 In this Part:
"major business" means a business (other than a government business
enterprise) the annual turnover of which was not less than the equivalent
of AUD50,000,000 in each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately
preceding the making of the application.
(NOTE: "appropriate regional authority", "AUD", "eligible business",
"fiscal year" and "ownership interest" are defined in regulation 1.03.)
128.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
128.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
128.211 The applicant has overall had a successful business career.
128.212 In any 2 of the 4 years immediately preceding the making of the
application, the applicant:
  (a) occupied a position in the 3 highest levels of the management
structure of a major business; and
  (b) was responsible for strategic policy development affecting a major
component or a wide range of operations of that major business;
in each of those years.
128.213 The applicant has notified the appropriate regional authority of a
State or Territory of:
  (a) the applicant's business history; and
  (b) the applicant's intention to develop a business in that State or
Territory.
128.214 The applicant genuinely has a realistic commitment, after entry to
Australia as the holder of a subclass 128 visa:
  (a) to either:
    (i) establish an eligible business in Australia; or
    (ii) participate in an existing eligible business in Australia; and
  (b) to maintain a substantial ownership interest in that business; and
  (c) to maintain direct and continuous involvement in management of that
business from day to day and in making decisions that affect the overall
direction and performance of the business in a manner that benefits the
Australian economy.
128.215 The applicant does not have a history of involvement in business
activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in
Australia.
128.216 The applicant signs a declaration in a form approved by the
Minister, that the applicant acknowledges the Government's requirements in
relation to entry to Australia as the holder of a subclass 128 visa.
128.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
128.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
clauses 128.211 to 128.215.
128.222 (1) The applicant's score on the business skills points test is not
less than the number of points that is specified for the purposes of this
clause by Gazette Notice.
  (2) For the purposes of subclause (1):
  (a) an applicant's score on the business skills points test is the sum of
the applicant's scores under:
    (i) Division 1.2 of Part 1 of Schedule 7; and
    (ii) Parts 2, 3 and 4 of that Schedule; and
  (b) an applicant's score under a Division or Part of Schedule 7 is the
number of points specified in that Division or Part in relation to the
attribute described in the Division or Part that relates to the applicant:
    (i) in the case of an attribute specified in Part 3 of Schedule 7-at the
time when the application is decided; and
    (ii) in the case of any other attribute-at the time when the application
is made;
and if there is more than 1 attribute of that kind, the highest single
number of points so specified; and
  (c) in determining the score of an applicant under Part 4 of Schedule 7,
only assets available for transfer, and capable of being transferred, to
Australia within 2 years of grant of a business skills visa are to be taken
into account.
128.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
128.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
128.225 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 128 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if the person has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 128 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
128.226 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant; and
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 128 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
128.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
128.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
128.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 128.21.
128.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
128.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 128 visa.
128.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
128.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
128.324 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 128 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant .
128.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
128.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa is granted.)
128.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
128.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
128.6 CONDITIONS
128.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
128.612 Either or both of conditions 8502 and 8515 may be imposed.
128.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
128.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 129-STATE/TERRITORY SPONSORED BUSINESS OWNER
129.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "appropriate regional authority", "AUD", "eligible business",
"fiscal year" and "main business" are defined in regulation 1.03. There are
no interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
129.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
129.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
129.211 The applicant has, or has had in any 2 fiscal years in the 4 fiscal
years immediately preceding the making of the application, an ownership
interest in one or more businesses.
129.212 (1) The applicant has overall had a successful business career.
  (2) In any 2 fiscal years in the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the net assets of:
  (a) the applicant; or
  (b) the applicant and his or her spouse together;
in a business or businesses were not less than the equivalent of AUD200,000
in each of those years.
129.213 In any 2 fiscal years in the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding
the making of the application, the applicant, as the owner of an interest
in a main business or main businesses, maintained direct and continuous
involvement in management of that business or those businesses from day to
day and in making decisions that affected the overall direction and
performance of that business or those businesses.
129.214 If the applicant was engaged, for 2 or more of the 4 fiscal years
immediately preceding the making of the application, in a business
providing professional, technical or trade services, the applicant was
directly engaged in the provision of the services, as distinct from the
general direction of the operation of the business, for no more than half
the time spent by the applicant from day to day in the conduct of the
business.
129.215 (1) The applicant has notified the appropriate regional authority
of a State or Territory of:
  (a) the applicant's business history; and
  (b) the applicant's intention to develop a business in that State or
Territory.
  (2) The applicant submits a notification on approved form 950 from that
appropriate regional authority that the authority will consider sponsoring
the applicant.
  (3) The notification must:
  (a) be signed by an officer of the appropriate regional authority who is
authorised to sign a notification of that kind ; and
  (b) bear the seal of the authority.
129.216 The applicant genuinely has a realistic commitment, after entry to
Australia as the holder of a subclass 129 visa:
  (a) to either:
    (i) establish an eligible business in Australia; or
    (ii) participate in an existing eligible business in Australia; and
  (b) to maintain a substantial ownership interest in that business; and
  (b) to maintain direct and continuous involvement in management of that
business from day to day and in making decisions that affect the overall
direction and performance of the business in a manner that benefits the
Australian economy.
129.217 The applicant does not have a history of involvement in business
activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in
Australia.
129.218 The applicant signs a declaration in a form approved by the
Minister that the applicant acknowledges the Government's requirements in
relation to entry to Australia as the holder of a subclass 129 visa.
129.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
129.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
clauses 129.211 to 129.217.
129.222 (1) The applicant's score on the business skills points test is not
less than the number of points that is specified for the purposes of this
paragraph by Gazette Notice.
  (2) For the purposes of subclause (1):
  (a) an applicant's score on the business skills points test is the sum of
the applicant's scores under:
    (i) Division 1.1 of Part 1 of Schedule 7; and
    (ii) Parts 2, 3, 4 and 5 of that Schedule; and
  (b) an applicant's score under a Division or Part of Schedule 7 is the
number of points specified in that Division or Part in relation to the
attribute described in the Division or Part that relates to the applicant:
    (i) in the case of an attribute specified in Part 3 of Schedule 7-at the
time when the application is decided; and
    (ii) in the case of any other attribute-at the time when the application
is made;
and if there is more than 1 attribute of that kind, the highest single
number of points so specified; and
  (c) in determining the score of an applicant under Part 4 of Schedule 7,
only assets available for transfer, and capable of being transferred, to
Australia within 2 years of grant of a business skills visa are to be taken
into account.
129.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
129.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
129.225 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 129 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if the person has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 129 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
129.226 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the subclass 129 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
129.227 (1) The applicant gives the Minister an undertaking to sponsor the
applicant (on approved form 949) from the appropriate regional authority.
  (2) The undertaking must:
  (a) be given by the same authority as the notification referred to in
subclause 129.215 (2); and
  (b) be signed by an officer of the authority who is authorised to sign an
undertaking of that kind; and
  (c) bear the seal of the authority; and
  (d) be given to the Minister within 90 days after the Minister asks for
it; and
  (e) be the first undertaking of that kind given by the applicant to the
Minister.
129.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria)
129.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
129.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 129.21.
129.312 A sponsorship given in respect of the person who satisfies the
primary criteria includes sponsorship of the applicant.
129.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
129.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 129 visa.
129.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
129.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
129.324 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 129 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
129.325 The sponsorship referred to in 129.312 is approved by the Minister
and is still in force.
129.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
129.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charges under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa is granted.)
129.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
129.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
129.6 CONDITIONS
129.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
129.612 Either or both of conditions 8502 and 8515 may be imposed.
129.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
129.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 130-STATE/TERRITORY SPONSORED SENIOR EXECUTIVE
130.1 INTERPRETATION
130.111 In this Part:
"major business" means a business (other than a government business
enterprise) the annual turnover of which was not less than the equivalent
of AUD10,000,000 in each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately
preceding the making of the application.
(NOTE: "appropriate regional authority", "AUD", "eligible business",
"fiscal year" and "ownership interest" are defined in regulation 1.03.)
130.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
130.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
130.211 The applicant has overall had a successful business career.
130.212 In any 2 of the 4 years immediately preceding the making of the
application, the applicant:
  (a) occupied a position in the 3 highest levels of the management
structure of a major business; and
  (b) was responsible for strategic policy development affecting a major
component or a wide range of operations of that major business;
in each of those years.
130.213 (1) The applicant has notified an appropriate regional authority of
a State or Territory of:
  (a) the applicant's business history; and
  (b) the applicant's intention to develop a business in that State or
Territory.
  (2) The applicant submits a notification, on approved form 950, from that
appropriate regional authority stating that the authority will consider
sponsoring the applicant.
  (3) The notification :
  (a) be signed by an officer of the authority who is authorised to sign a
notification of that kind ; and
  (b) bear the seal of the authority.
130.214 The applicant genuinely has a realistic commitment, after entry to
Australia as the holder of a subclass 130 visa:
  (a) to either:
    (i) establish an eligible business in Australia; or
    (ii) participate in an existing eligible business in Australia; and
  (b) to maintain a substantial ownership interest in that business; and
  (b) to maintain direct and continuous involvement in management of that
business from day to day and in making decisions that affect the overall
direction and performance of the business in a manner that benefits the
Australian economy.
130.215 The applicant does not have a history of involvement in business
activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in
Australia.
130.216 The applicant signs a declaration in a form approved by the
Minister that the applicant acknowledges the Government's requirements in
relation to entry to Australia as the holder of a subclass 130 visa.
130.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
130.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
clauses 130.221 to 130.215.
130.222 (1) The applicant's score on the business skills points test is not
less than the number of points that is specified for the purposes of this
clause by Gazette Notice.
  (2) For the purposes of subclause (1):
  (a) an applicant's score on the business skills points test is the sum of
the applicant's scores under:
    (i) Division 1.2 of Part 1 of Schedule 7; and
    (ii) Parts 2,3 and 4 of that Schedule; and
  (b) an applicant's score under a Division or Part of Schedule 7 is the
number of points specified in that Division or Part in relation to the
attribute described in the Division or Part that relates to the applicant:
    (i) in the case of an attribute specified in Part 3 of Schedule 7-at the
time when the application is decided; and
    (ii) in the case of any other attribute-at the time when the application
is made; and if there is more than 1 attribute of that kind, the highest
single number of points so specified; and
  (c) in determining the score of an applicant under Part 4 of Schedule 7,
only assets available for transfer, and capable of being transferred, to
Australia within 2 years after the date of the grant to the applicant of a
subclass 130 visa are to be taken into account.
130.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
130.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
130.225 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is also an
applicant for a subclass 130 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if the person has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 130 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
130.226 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the subclass 130 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
130.227 (1) The applicant gives the Minister an undertaking to sponsor the
applicant (on approved form 949) from the appropriate regional authority.
  (2) The undertaking must:
  (a) be given by the same authority as the notification referred to in
subclause 130.215 (2); and
  (b) be signed by an officer of the authority who is authorised to sign an
undertaking of that kind; and
  (c) bear the seal of the authority; and
  (d) be given to the Minister within 90 days after the Minister asks for
it; and
  (e) be the first undertaking of that kind given by the applicant to the
Minister.
130.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
130.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
130.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 130.21.
130.312 The sponsorship given in respect of the person who satisfies the
primary criteria includes sponsorship of the applicant.
130.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
130.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 130 visa.
130.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
130.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
130.324 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 130 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
130.325 The sponsorship referred to in 130.312 is approved by the Minister
and is still in force.
130.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
130.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charges under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa is granted.)
130.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
130.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
130.6 CONDITIONS
130.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
130.612 Either or both of conditions 8502 and 8515 may be imposed.
130.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
130.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 150-FORMER CITIZEN
150.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
150.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
150.21 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
150.211 The applicant:
  (a) has lost Australian citizenship because of section 17 or subsection 23
(1) of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948 or section 20 of the Nationality
and Citizenship Act 1948; and
  (b) resided in Australia as an Australian citizen for an aggregate period
of not less than 2 years; and
  (c) either:
    (i) has maintained business, cultural or personal ties with Australia;
or
    (ii) has family ties with Australia that are stronger than those with
any other country.
150.212 If the applicant lost Australian citizenship because of section 17
of the Australian Citizenship Act 1948, the applicant acquired citizenship
of another country:
  (a) to avoid significant hardship or detriment; or
  (b) in circumstances where the applicant was compelled to acquire that
citizenship; or
  (c) being unaware that, by acquiring that citizenship, the applicant would
lose Australian citizenship.
150.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
150.221 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
150.222 The applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005
and 5007 to 5010.
150.223 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 150 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 150 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
150.224 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18; and
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 150 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
150.226 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
150.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are family unit
members of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
150.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
150.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 150.21.
150.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision.
150.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 150 visa.
150.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
150.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
150.324 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria, either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support provided in
relation to that person, and that assurance has been accepted by the
Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the applicant
and has been accepted by the Minister.
150.325 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 150 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
150.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
150.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa is granted.)
150.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
150.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from date of grant.
150.6 CONDITIONS
150.611 First entry must be made by a date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
150.612 Condition 8205 may be imposed.
150.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
150.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 151-FORMER RESIDENT
151.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
151.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. Members of the family unit who are applicants for a visa of
this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
151.21 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
151.211 The applicant:
  (a) spent the greater part of his or her life before the age of 18 in the
migration zone as an Australian permanent resident; and
  (b) did not at any time acquire Australian citizenship; and
  (c) has maintained business, cultural or personal ties with Australia.
151.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
151.221 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
151.222 The applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005
and 5007 to 5010.
151.223 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
151.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 151 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if she or he has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 151 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
an assessment in relation to those criteria.
151.225 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 151 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
151.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
151.31 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
151.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
subdivision 151.21.
151.32 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
151.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 151 visa.
151.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
151.323 If the applicant has previously been in the migration zone, the
applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to
5010.
151.324 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support provided in
relation to that person, and the assurance has been accepted by the
Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been provided in relation to the applicant
and has been accepted by the Minister.
151.325 If the applicant is the dependent child of the person who is a
holder of a subclass 151 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the child would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the child.
151.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO THE GRANT
151.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: CHARGES: Any applicable charge under the Immigration (Education)
Charge Act 1992 must be paid before the visa is granted.)
151.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
151.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to, and enter,
Australia within 4 years of grant.
151.6 CONDITIONS
151.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
151.612 Condition 8205 may be imposed.
151.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
151.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 152-FAMILY OF NEW ZEALAND CITIZEN
152.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
152.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
152.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
152.211 The applicant:
  (a) is not a New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) is a member of the family unit of a New Zealand citizen who is either:
    (i) the holder of a Special Category visa and is usually resident in
Australia; or
    (ii) on entry to Australia, will be the holder of a Special Category
visa and intends to be usually resident in Australia.
152.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
152.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria set out in clause
152.211.
152.222 The New Zealand citizen referred to in subclause 152.211 (b)
satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
152.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
152.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
152.225 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
152.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
152.227 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who made a
combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 152 visa to the
child as a member of the family unit of the applicant would not prejudice
the rights and interests of any other person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
152.228 If the applicant has not turned 18, the Minister is satisfied that
the grant of the visa would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
152.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
152.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
152.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, an applicant who satisfies the primary criteria
in subdivision 152.21.
152.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
152.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 152 visa.
152.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
152.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
152.324 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria, either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support given in respect
of that person and that assurance has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been given in relation to the applicant,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
152.325 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 152 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
152.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
152.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
152.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
152.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel and enter Australia
for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
152.6 CONDITIONS
152.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
152.612 Either or both of conditions 8515 and 8502 may be imposed.
152.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
152.71 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 155-FIVE YEAR RETURN
155.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
155.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
155.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
155.211 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3) or
(5).
  (2) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is, or was immediately before going overseas, an Australian permanent
resident; and
  (b) was an Australian permanent resident for a period of, or periods that
total, not less than 2 years in the period of 3 years immediately before
the application for the visa.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirement of this subclause if the applicant
has been an Australian permanent resident at some time in the period of 5
years immediately before the application for the visa and is:
  (a) a person who is employed outside Australia by:
    (i) the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory; or
    (ii) a Commonwealth, State or Territory authority; or
    (iii) an organisation that has its principal office in Australia;
and the Minister is satisfied that the person was usually employed by that
employer immediately before the person departed Australia; or
  (b) a member of the family unit of a person referred to in paragraph (a);
or
  (c) a person who:
    (i) has established, or is taking part in, a business in Australia that
has done, or is likely to do, any of the following:
      (A) create or maintain employment in Australia;
      (B) introduce into Australia new or improved technology for the
production of goods or the provision of services;
      (C) produce goods, or provide services, in Australia for export;
      (D) produce goods, or provide services to replace imported goods or
services; and
    (ii) is required to travel outside Australia in the interests of that
business; or
  (d) a person who:
    (i) is a member of the same family unit (within the meaning of subclause
(4)) as an Australian citizen; and
    (ii) has accompanied, or is to accompany, the citizen overseas; or
  (e) a person who is, or is to be, employed overseas by an international
organisation to which the International Organizations (Privileges and
Immunities) Act 1963 applies, within the meaning of subsection 3 (1) of
that Act.
  (4) For the purposes of paragraph (3) (d), a person is a member of the
same family unit as an Australian citizen if:
  (a) that person is a member of the Australian citizen's family unit; or
  (b) the Australian citizen is a member of that person's family unit; or
  (c) that person and the Australian citizen are members of the family unit
of a third person.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is, or was, the holder of a return visa, Class B granted
under regulation 95 of the Migration (1989) Regulations as in force from 19
December 1989 to 16 September 1991 (inclusive); and
  (b) by reason of the operation of paragraph 16 (4) (b) of the Migration
(1989) Regulations, that visa expires, or expired, before the date on which
it would have expired, apart from that paragraph.
(NOTE: Paragraph 16 (4) (b) of the Migration (1989) Regulations, as in
force on 19 December 1989, provided that a return visa, Class B ceased to
be valid on the day on which the passport to which it related expired, even
if that day occurred before the end of the period for which the visa would
otherwise have been valid. This limitation was removed on 17 September
1991.)
155.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
155.221 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criterion 5001.
155.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
155.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
155.411 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
155.412 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant must be in
Australia, but not in immigration clearance, at the time of grant.
155.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
155.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia:
  (a) in the case of a visa granted to an applicant who meets the
requirements of subclause 155.211 (5)-during the period from date of grant
to the date on which the return visa, Class B referred to in paragraph
155.211 (5) (a) would have expired apart from the operation of paragraph 16
(4) (b) of the Migration (1989) Regulations; or
  (b) in any other case-for:
    (i) a period of 5 years from the date of grant; or
    (ii) a shorter period determined by the Minister.
155.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
155.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
155.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 156-ONE YEAR RETURN
156.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
156.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
156.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
156.211 The applicant:
  (a) is, or was immediately before going overseas, an Australian permanent
resident; and
  (b) was an Australian permanent resident for a period of, or periods that
total, at least 1 year, but not more than 2 years, during the period of 3
years immediately before the application was made.
156.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
156.221 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criterion 5001.
156.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
156.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
156.411 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
156.412 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant must be in
Australia, but not in immigration clearance, at the time of grant.
156.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
156.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for:
  (a) a period of 1 year from the date of grant; or
  (b)  a shorter period determined by the Minister.
156.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
156.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
156.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 157-THREE MONTH RETURN
157.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE:  There are no interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
157.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
157.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
157.211 The applicant:
  (a) is, or was immediately before going overseas, an Australian permanent
resident; and
  (b) was an Australian permanent resident for a period of, or periods that
total, less than 1 year in the period of 3 years immediately before the
application was made; and
  (c) establishes substantial reasons for leaving and re-entering Australia.
157.212 If the applicant has previously been granted and has used a
subclass 157 visa, or a Class 157 visa under the Migration (1993)
Regulations, to travel to Australia and that visa has expired, the
applicant must have subsequently satisfied the criteria for the grant of a
subclass 155 or156 visa, or a Class 155 or Class 156 visa under the
Migration (1993) Regulations.
157.213 If the applicant is outside Australia, the applicant has not been
absent from Australia for more than 3 months continuously before making the
application.
157.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
157.221 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criterion 5001.
157.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
157.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
157.411 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
157.412 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant must be in
Australia, but not in immigration clearance, at time of grant.
157.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
157.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 3 months from the date of grant.
157.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
157.7 EVIDENCE OF GRANT
157.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 159-RESIDENT RETURN
159.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: There are no interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
159.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
159.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
159.211 The applicant claims, but is unable to prove, that he or she was an
Australian permanent residentimmediately before going overseas.
159.212 If the applicant could prove that claim, the applicant would
satisfy the criteria for the grant of a subclass 155, 156 or 157 visa.
159.213 The applicant gives the Minister a written statement that satisfies
the Minister that:
  (a) the applicant has urgent and compelling reasons for travelling to
Australia before proving the claim; and
  (b) entry of the applicant to Australia before the claim is proved will
not prejudice the interests of Australia; and
  (c) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the claim can be
proved.
159.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
159.221 There is no evidence that the applicant does not satisfy special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
159.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
159.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
159.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
159.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
159.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia once only within 3 months of grant and to remain in Australia for
3 months.
159.6 CONDITIONS
159.611 The holder must travel to and enter Australia within 3 months of
grant of the visa.
159.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
159.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 200-REFUGEE
200.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
200.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
200.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
200.211 The applicant is subject to persecution in the applicant's home
country.
200.212 The applicant is living in a country other than the applicant's
home country.
200.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
200.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 200.211
and 200.212.
200.222 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a permanent visa,
having regard to:
  (a) the degree of persecution to which the applicant is subject in the
applicant's home country; and
  (b) the extent of the applicant's connection with Australia; and
  (c) whether or not there is any suitable country available, other than
Australia, that can provide for the applicant's settlement and protection
from persecution; and
  (d) the capacity of the Australian community to provide for the
permanent settlement of persons such as the applicant in Australia.
200.223 The permanent settlement of the applicant in Australia would be
consistent with the regional and global priorities of the Commonwealth in
relation to the permanent settlement of persons in Australia on
humanitarian grounds.
200.224 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
200.225 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 200 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 200 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes (including subclass 200)
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
200.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
200.227 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
200.228 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
200.229 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 200 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 200 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
200.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
200.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
200.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in Subdivision 200.21.
200.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
200.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 200 visa.
200.322 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 200 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
200.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
200.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
200.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
200.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
200.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
200.6 CONDITIONS
200.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
200.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
200.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
200.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 201-IN-COUNTRY SPECIAL HUMANITARIAN
201.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
201.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
201.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
201.211 The applicant is subject to persecution in the applicant's home
country.
201.212 The applicant is living in the applicant's home country.
201.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
201.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 201.211
and 201.212.
201.222 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting to the applicant a permanent visa
having regard to:
  (a) the degree of persecution to which the applicant is subject in the
applicant's home country; and
  (b) the extent of the applicant's connection with Australia; and
  (c) whether or not there is any suitable country available, other than
Australia, that can provide for the applicant's settlement and protection
from persecution; and
  (d) the capacity of the Australian community to provide for the
permanent settlement of persons such as the applicant in Australia.
201.223 The permanent settlement of the applicant in Australia would be
consistent with the regional and global priorities of the Commonwealth in
relation to the permanent settlement of persons in Australia on
humanitarian grounds.
201.224 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
201.225 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 201 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 201 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 201,
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
201.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
201.227 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
201.228 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
201.229 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 201 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 201 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
201.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
201.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
201.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 201.21.
201.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
201.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 201 visa.
201.322 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 201 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
201.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
201.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
201.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
201.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
201.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
201.6 CONDITIONS
201.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
201.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
201.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
201.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 202-GLOBAL SPECIAL HUMANITARIAN
202.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
202.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
202.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
202.211 The applicant is subject to substantial discrimination, amounting
to gross violation of human rights, in the applicant's home country.
202.212 The applicant is living in a country other than the applicant's
home country.
202.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
202.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 202.211
and 202.212.
202.222 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting to the applicant a permanent visa,
having regard to:
  (a) the degree of discrimination to which the applicant is subject in
the applicant's home country; and
  (b) the extent of the applicant's connection with Australia; and
  (c) whether or not there is any suitable country available, other than
Australia, that can provide for the applicant settlement and protection
from discrimination; and
  (d) the capacity of the Australian community to provide for the
permanent settlement of persons such as the applicant in Australia.
202.223 The permanent settlement of the applicant in Australia would be
consistent with the regional and global priorities of the Commonwealth in
relation to the permanent settlement of persons in Australia on
humanitarian grounds.
202.224 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
` (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
202.225 The applicant is proposed for entry to Australia, in accordance
with approved form 681, by:
  (a) a person who is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; or
  (b) a body operating in Australia.
202.226 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 202 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 202 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 202,
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
202.227 (1) The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004
and 4007 to 4010.
  (2) If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
202.228 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
202.229 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 202 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 202 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
202.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
202.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
202.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 202.21.
202.312 The proposal made under clause 202.225 in respect of the relevant
person who satisfies the primary criteria includes the applicant.
202.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
202.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 202 visa.
202.322 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 202 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
202.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
202.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
202.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
202.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
202.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
202.6 CONDITIONS
202.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
202.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
202.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
202.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 203-EMERGENCY RESCUE
203.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
203.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
203.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
203.211 The applicant is subject to persecution in the applicant's home
country, whether the applicant is living in the applicant's home country or
in another country.
203.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
203.221 The applicant continues to be subject to persecution in the
applicant's home country.
203.222 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting to the applicant a permanent visa,
having regard to:
  (a) the degree of persecution to which the applicant is subject in the
applicant's home country; and
  (b) the extent of the applicant's connection with Australia; and
  (c) whether or not there is any suitable country available, other than
Australia, that can provide for the applicant settlement and protection
from persecution; and
  (d) the capacity of the Australian community to provide for the
permanent settlement of persons such as the applicant in Australia.
203.223 The permanent settlement of the applicant in Australia would be
consistent with the regional and global priorities of the Commonwealth in
relation to the permanent settlement of persons in Australia on
humanitarian grounds.
203.224 The Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) there are urgent and compelling reasons for the applicant to travel
to Australia; and
  (b) permanent settlement in Australia:
    (i) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
    (ii) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
203.225 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 203 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 203 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 203,
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
203.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
203.227 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
203.228 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
203.229 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 203 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 203 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
203.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who members of the
family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
203.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
203.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined appplication with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 203.21.
203.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
203.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 203 visa.
203.322 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 203 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
203.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
203.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
203.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
203.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
203.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
203.6 CONDITIONS
203.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
203.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
203.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
203.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 204-WOMAN AT RISK
204.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
204.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
204.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
204.211 The applicant is a female person who is:
  (a) subject to persecution; or
  (b) registered as being of concern to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.
204.212 The applicant is living in a country other than her home country.
204.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
204.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 204.211
and 204.212.
204.222 The Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) the applicant does not have the protection of a male relative and
is in danger of victimisation, harassment or serious abuse because of her
sex; and
  (b) permanent settlement in Australia:
    (i) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
    (ii) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
204.223 The permanent settlement of the applicant in Australia would be
consistent with the regional and global priorities of the Commonwealth in
relation to the permanent settlement of persons in Australia on
humanitarian grounds.
204.224 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting to the applicant a permanent visa,
having regard to:
  (a) the degree of persecution to which the applicant is subject in her
home country; and
  (b) the extent of the applicant's connection with Australia; and
  (c) whether or not there is any suitable country available, other than
Australia, that can provide for the applicant settlement and protection
from persecution; and
  (d) the capacity of the Australian community to provide for the
permanent settlement of persons such as the applicant in Australia.
204.225 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 204 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 204 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 204
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
204.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
204.227 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
204.228 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
204.229 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 204 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 204 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
204.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
204.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
204.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined appplication with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 204.21.
204.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
204.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 204 visa.
204.322 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 204 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
204.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5008 and 5009.
204.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
204.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
204.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
204.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
204.6 CONDITIONS
204.611 Entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister for the
purpose.
204.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
204.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
204.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 205-CAMP CLEARANCE
205.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
205.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
205.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
205.211 The applicant is a citizen of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
205.212 The applicant is living in a camp that is:
  (a) maintained by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees or
the Government of Hong Kong; and
  (b) situated in Hong Kong, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia or the
Philippines.
205.213 The applicant arrived in the country where the camp is situated:
  (a) if that country is Hong Kong-before 16 June 1988; or
  (b) if that country is Thailand or Malaysia-before 14 March 1989; or
  (c) if that country is Indonesia-before 17 March 1989; or
  (d) if that country is the Philippines-before 21 March 1989.
205.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
205.221 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
205.222 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 205 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 205 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 205
visas, granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of
those classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
205.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
205.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
205.225 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
205.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 205 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 205 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
205.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria)
205.31 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
205.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 205.21.
205.32 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
205.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 205 visa.
205.322 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
205.323 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 205 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
205.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
205.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
205.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
205.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder travel and entry to Australia
within 4 years of grant.
205.6 CONDITIONS
205.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
205.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
205.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
205.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 208-EAST TIMORESE IN PORTUGAL
208.1 INTERPRETATION
208.111 (1) For the purposes of this Part, "eligible New Zealand citizen"
includes a person who, at all times between 1 September 1992 and 31 August
1994:
  (a) was a New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) was normally resident in Australia; and
  (c) was an exempt non-citizen; and
  (d) satisfied the requirements of subclauses (2) and (3).
  (2) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who:
  (a) has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to death or to
imprisonment, for at least 1 year; or
  (b) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes and sentenced to
imprisonment, for periods that add up to at least 1 year if:
    (i) any period concurrent with part of a longer period is disregarded;
and
    (ii) any periods not disregarded that are concurrent with each other
are treated as 1 period;
whether or not:
    (iii) the crimes were of the same kind; or
    (iv) the crimes were committed at the same time; or
    (v) the convictions were at the same time; or
    (vi) the sentencings were at the same time; or
    (vii) the periods were consecutive; or
  (c) has been charged with a crime and either:
    (i) found guilty of having committed the crime while of unsound mind;
or
    (ii) acquitted on the ground that the crime was committed while the
person was of unsound mind;
  (d) has been removed or deported from Australia or removed or deported
from another country; or
  (e) has been excluded from another country in the circumstances set out
in regulation 7.12 of the Migration (1993) Regulations;
where "sentenced to imprisonment" includes ordered to be confined in a
corrective institution.
  (3) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who suffers from a disease or a physical or mental
condition of a kind set out in regulation 7.11 of the Migration (1993)
Regulations.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
208.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
208.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
208.211 The applicant:
  (a) was born in East Timor; and
  (b) was living in Portugal on 30 April 1991; and
  (c) lived continuously in Portugal from that date to the time of
application.
208.212 The Minister is satisfied that the usual place of residence of the
applicant in 1975 was East Timor.
208.213 The Minister is satisfied that, at the time of application, the
applicant has better prospects of adapting to Australian society than to
Portuguese society.
208.214 The applicant has a parent, daughter, son, brother, sister, aunt,
uncle, nephew or niece who:
  (a) was an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen on 1 January 1992; and
  (b) continues to be an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) is usually resident in Australia.
208.215 (1) The applicant has produced a written undertaking of the kind
referred to in subclause (2) from an organisation that is accepted by the
Minister as representing the East Timorese community in Australia.
  (2) The undertaking is a written undertaking to the Minister that
specifies assistance:
  (a) that the organisation will provide to the applicant, and the
applicant's dependants, after their entry to Australia; and
  (b) that is acceptable to the Minister, having regard to the needs of
the applicant in the period of 6 months following entry to Australia;
with regard to the following matters:
  (c) food, clothing, accommodation and household goods;
  (d) personal support;
  (e) access to community and public services;
  (f) obtaining employment;
  (g) language interpretation and securing English language instruction;
  (h) community involvement and self-reliance;
    (i) reimbursing the Commonwealth for its costs (if any) in providing
accommodation services to the applicant;
  (j) in the case of an applicant who has been provided with
accommodation by the Commonwealth, reporting to Immigration on progress in
the settlement of the applicant.
208.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
208.221 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
208.222 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 208 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 208 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 208,
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
208.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
208.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
208.225 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
208.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 208 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 208 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
208.227 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a visa.
208.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who members of the
family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
208.31 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
208.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 208.21.
208.312 The written undertaking made under clause 208.215 in respect of a
person who is a member of the family unit of the applicant and satisfies
the primary criteria includes the applicant.
208.32 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
208.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 208 visa.
208.322 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 208 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
208.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
208.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
208.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
208.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
208.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
208.6 CONDITIONS
208.611 First entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
208.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
208.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
208.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 209-CITIZENS OF THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA (DISPLACED PERSONS)
209.1 INTERPRETATION
209.111 (1) For the purposes of this Part, "eligible New Zealand citizen"
includes a person who, at all times between 1 September 1992 and 31 August
1994:
  (a) was a New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) was normally resident in Australia; and
  (c) was an exempt non-citizen; and
  (d) satisfied the requirements of subclauses (2) and (3).
  (2) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who:
  (a) has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to death or to
imprisonment, for at least 1 year; or
  (b) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes and sentenced to
imprisonment, for periods that add up to at least 1 year if:
    (i) any period concurrent with part of a longer period is disregarded;
and
    (ii) any periods not disregarded that are concurrent with each other
are treated as 1 period;
whether or not:
    (iii) the crimes were of the same kind; or
    (iv) the crimes were committed at the same time; or
  (v) the convictions were at the same time; or
  (vi) the sentencings were at the same time; or
  (vii) the periods were consecutive; or
  (c) has been charged with a crime and either:
    (i) found guilty of having committed the crime while of unsound mind;
or
    (ii) acquitted on the ground that the crime was committed while the
person was of unsound mind;
  (d) has been removed or deported from Australia or removed or deported
from another country; or
  (e) has been excluded from another country in the circumstances set out
in regulation 7.12 of the Migration (1993) Regulations;
where "sentenced to imprisonment" includes ordered to be confined in a
corrective institution.
  (3) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who suffers from a disease or a physical or mental
condition of a kind set out in regulation 7.11 of the Migration (1993)
Regulations.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
209.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
209.21 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
209.211 The applicant is:
  (a) a person who:
    (i) was, on 19 June 1991, a citizen of the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia; and
    (ii) is usually resident in a place that, on 19 June 1991, formed
part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; or
  (b) a person who:
    (i) was born on or after 20 June 1991; and
    (ii) is a dependent child of a person mentioned in paragraph (a).
209.212 The applicant is registered as a displaced person by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Committee of the
Red Cross or an organisation that is accepted by the Minister:
  (a) as an affiliate of that Committee; or
  (b) as having similar objectives and functions as the Committee or a
body referred to in paragraph (a) in relation to conflict in the former
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
209.213 The applicant has a parent, daughter, son, brother, sister, aunt,
uncle, nephew or niece (in this clause called a "near relative") who:
  (a) was an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen on 1 January 1992; and
  (b) continues to be an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) is usually resident in Australia; and
  (d) gives a written undertaking to the Minister that specifies
assistance:
    (i) that the near relative will provide to the applicant, and the
applicant's dependants, after their entry to Australia; and
    (ii) that is acceptable to the Minister, having regard to the needs
of the applicant in the period of 6 months following entry to Australia;
with regard to the following matters:
    (iii) food, clothing, accommodation and household goods;
    (iv) personal support;
    (v) access to community and public services;
    (vi) obtaining employment;
    (vii) language interpretation and securing English language
instruction;
    (viii) community involvement and self-reliance.
209.214 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant has a well-founded
fear of substantial discrimination because of the applicant's ancestry or
ethnic or religious affiliation.
209.215 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant is unable to resume
living in the applicant's former home.
209.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
209.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 209.214
and 209.215.
209.222 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
209.223 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 209 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 209 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes (including subclass 209)
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
209.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
209.225 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
209.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 209 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 209 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
209.227 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody of, or access to,
the child.
209.228 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a visa.
209.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
209.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
209.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 209.21.
209.312 (1) The undertaking, made under clause 209.213 in respect of a
person who is a member of the family unit of the applicant and satisfies
the primary criteria, includes the applicant.
209.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
209.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 209 visa.
209.322 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
re-entry criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
209.323 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 209 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
209.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
209.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
209.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
209.511 Permanent visa, permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
209.6 CONDITIONS
209.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
209.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
209.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
209.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 210-MINORITIES OF FORMER USSR
210.1 INTERPRETATION
210.111 (1) For the purposes of this Part, "eligible New Zealand citizen"
includes a person who, at all times between 1 September 1992 and 31 August
1994:
  (a) was a New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) was normally resident in Australia; and
  (c) was an exempt non-citizen; and
  (d) satisfied the requirements of subclauses (2) and (3).
  (2) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who:
  (a) has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to death or to
imprisonment, for at least 1 year; or
  (b) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes and sentenced to
imprisonment, for periods that add up to at least 1 year if:
    (i) any period concurrent with part of a longer period is disregarded;
and
    (ii) any periods not disregarded that are concurrent with each other
are treated as 1 period;
whether or not:
    (iii) the crimes were of the same kind; or
    (iv) the crimes were committed at the same time; or
  (v) the convictions were at the same time; or
  (vi) the sentencings were at the same time; or
  (vii) the periods were consecutive; or
  (c) has been charged with a crime and either:
    (i) found guilty of having committed the crime while of unsound mind;
or
    (ii) acquitted on the ground that the crime was committed while the
person was of unsound mind;
  (d) has been removed or deported from Australia or removed or deported
from another country; or
  (e) has been excluded from another country in the circumstances set out
in regulation 7.12 of the Migration (1993) Regulations;
where "sentenced to imprisonment" includes ordered to be confined in a
corrective institution.
  (3) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who suffers from a disease or a physical or mental
condition of a kind set out in regulation 7.11 of the Migration (1993)
Regulations.
(NOTE: If there is more than 1 applicant for a visa of this Subclass in a
family, at least 1 of those applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.
Members of his or her family unit need satisfy only the secondary criteria.
If 1 person in a family already holds a visa of this Subclass, members of
his or her family unit need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
210.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
210.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
210.211 The applicant was a citizen of the former Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics.
210.212 The applicant is usually resident in the former Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics.
210.213 The applicant has a parent, daughter, son, brother, sister, aunt,
uncle, nephew or niece who:
  (a) was an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen on 1 January 1992; and
  (b) continues to be an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) is usually resident in Australia.
210.214 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant has suffered
substantial discrimination or severe distress because of his or her
ancestry or religious affiliation.
210.215 The Federation of Australian Jewish Welfare Societies or an
organisation that is accepted by the Minister as representing the Molokan
community in Australia:
  (a) states in writing to the Minister that it supports the application
and
  (b) gives a written undertaking to the Minister that specifies
assistance:
    (i) that the body will provide to the applicant, and the applicant's
dependants, after their entry to Australia; and
    (ii) that is acceptable to the Minister, having regard to the needs
of the applicant in the period of 6 months following the applicant's entry
into Australia;
with regard to the following matters:
    (iii) food, clothing, accommodation and household goods;
    (iv) personal support;
    (v) access to community and public services;
    (vi) obtaining employment;
    (vii) language interpretation and securing English language
instruction;
    (viii) community involvement and self-reliance;
    (ix) reimbursing the Commonwealth for its costs (if any) in
providing accommodation services to the applicant;
    (x) in the case of an applicant who has been provided with
accommodation by the Commonwealth - reporting to Immigration on progress in
the settlement of the applicant.
210.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
210.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion set out in clause
210.214.
210.222 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
210.223 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 210 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 210 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes (including subclass 210)
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
210.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004, 4007
to 4010.
210.225 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
210.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 210 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 210 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
210.227 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody of guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
210.228 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a visa.
210.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
210.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
210.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 210.21.
210.312 The written undertaking made under paragraph 210.215 (b), in
respect of a person who is a member of the same family unit as the
applicant satisfies the primary criteria includes the applicant.
210.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
210.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 210 visa.
210.322 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
210.323 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 210 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
210.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
210.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
210.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
210.511 Permanent visa, permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
210.6 CONDITIONS
210.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
210.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
210.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
210.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 211-BURMESE IN BURMA
211.1 INTERPRETATION
211.111 (1) For the purposes of this Part, "eligible New Zealand citizen"
includes a person who, at all times between 1 September 1992 and 31 August
1994:
  (a) was a New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) was normally resident in Australia; and
  (c) was an exempt non-citizen; and
  (d) satisfied the requirements of subclauses (2) and (3).
  (2) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who:
  (a) has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to death or to
imprisonment, for at least 1 year; or
  (b) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes and sentenced to
imprisonment, for periods that add up to at least 1 year if:
    (i) any period concurrent with part of a longer period is disregarded;
and
    (ii) any periods not disregarded that are concurrent with each other
are treated as 1 period;
whether or not:
    (iii) the crimes were of the same kind; or
    (iv) the crimes were committed at the same time; or
    (v) the convictions were at the same time; or
    (vi) the sentencings were at the same time; or
    (vii) the periods were consecutive; or
  (c) has been charged with a crime and either:
    (i) found guilty of having committed the crime while of unsound mind;
or
    (ii) acquitted on the ground that the crime was committed while the
person was of unsound mind;
  (d) has been removed or deported from Australia or removed or deported
from another country; or
  (e) has been excluded from another country in the circumstances set out
in regulation 7.12 of the Migration (1993) Regulations;
where "sentenced to imprisonment" includes ordered to be confined in a
corrective institution.
  (3) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who suffers from a disease or a physical or mental
condition of a kind set out in regulation 7.11 of the Migration (1993)
Regulations.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
211.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
211.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application.
211.212 The applicant is:
  (a) a citizen of Burma; and
  (b) resident in Burma; and
  (c) subject to substantial discrimination in Burma.
211.213 (1) The applicant has produced a written undertaking of the kind
specified in subclause (2) from:
  (a) an organisation that is accepted by the Minister as representing
the Burmese community in Australia; or
  (b) an established Community Refugee Settlement Scheme support group.
  (2) The undertaking is a written undertaking to the Minister that
specifies assistance:
  (a) that the organisation will provide to the applicant after the
applicant's entry to Australia; and
  (b) that is acceptable to the Minister, having regard to the needs of
the applicant in the period of 6 months following entry to Australia;
with regard to the following matters:
  (c) food, clothing, accommodation and household goods;
  (d) personal support;
  (e) access to community and public services;
  (f) obtaining employment;
  (g) language interpretation and securing English language instruction;
  (h) community involvement and self-reliance;
  (i) reimbursing the Commonwealth for its costs (if any) in providing
accommodation services to the applicant;
  (j) in the case of an applicant who has been provided with
accommodation by the Commonwealth-reporting to Immigration on progress in
the settlement of the applicant.
211.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
211.221 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
211.222 (1) If the applicant has relevant family links in Australia, grant
of the visa would not result in the number of subclass 211 visas granted to
applicants with relevant family ties exceeding the maximum number of
subclass 211 visas specified, by Gazette Notice, for the purposes of this
subclause in respect of that financial year.
  (2) If the applicant does not have relevant family links in Australia,
approval of the application would not result in the number of subclass 211
visas granted to applicants without relevant family links in Australia
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 211 visas specified, by Gazette
Notice, for the purposes of this subclause in respect of that financial
year.
  (3) For the purposes of this clause, an applicant has relevant family
links in Australia if the applicant has a parent, daughter, son, brother,
sister, aunt, uncle, nephew or niece who:
  (a) was an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen on 1 July 1992; and
  (b) continues to be an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) is usually resident in Australia.
211.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
211.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
211.225 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 211 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 211 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
211.226 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
211.227 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a visa.
211.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria)
211.31 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
211.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 211.21.
211.312 The written undertaking made under clause 211.213 in respect of a
person who is a member of the same family unit as the applicant, and who
satisfies the primary criteria, includes the applicant.
211.32 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
213.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 211 visa.
211.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
211.324 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 211 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
211.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
211.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
211.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
211.511 Permanent visa, permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
211.6 CONDITIONS
211.611 First entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
211.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
211.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
211.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 212-SUDANESE
212.1 INTERPRETATION
212.111 (1) For the purposes of this Part, "eligible New Zealand citizen"
includes a person who, at all times between 1 September 1992 and 31 August
1994:
  (a) was a New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) was normally resident in Australia; and
  (c) was an exempt non-citizen; and
  (d) satisfied the requirements of subclauses (2) and (3).
  (2) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who:
  (a) has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to death or to
imprisonment, for at least 1 year; or
  (b) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes and sentenced to
imprisonment, for periods that add up to at least 1 year if:
    (i) any period concurrent with part of a longer period is disregarded;
and
    (ii) any periods not disregarded that are concurrent with each other
are treated as 1 period;
whether or not:
    (iii) the crimes were of the same kind; or
    (iv) the crimes were committed at the same time; or
  (v) the convictions were at the same time; or
  (vi) the sentencings were at the same time; or
  (vii) the periods were consecutive; or
  (c) has been charged with a crime and either:
    (i) found guilty of having committed the crime while of unsound mind;
or
    (ii) acquitted on the ground that the crime was committed while the
person was of unsound mind;
  (d) has been removed or deported from Australia or removed or deported
from another country; or
  (e) has been excluded from another country in the circumstances set out
in regulation 7.12 of the Migration (1993) Regulations;
where "sentenced to imprisonment" includes ordered to be confined in a
corrective institution.
  (3) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who suffers from a disease or a physical or mental
condition of a kind set out in regulation 7.11 of the Migration (1993)
Regulations.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
212.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
212.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
212.211 The applicant is a citizen of the Republic of Sudan.
212.212 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant has suffered
substantial discrimination or severe distress because of his or her ethnic
or religious affiliation.
212.213 The applicant has a parent, daughter, son, brother, sister, aunt,
uncle, nephew or niece (in this clause called "the near relative"), who:
  (a) was an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen on 1 January 1992; and
  (b) continues to be an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) is usually resident in Australia; and
  (d) gives a written undertaking to the Minister that specifies
assistance:
    (i) that the near relative will provide to the applicant, and the
applicants dependents after their entry to Australia; and
    (ii) that is acceptable to the Minister, having regard to the needs
of the applicant in the period of 6 months following the applicant's entry
to Australia;
with regard to the following matters:
    (iii) food, clothing, accommodation and household goods;
    (iv) personal support;
  (v) access to community and public services;
  (vi) obtaining employment;
  (vii) language interpretation and securing English language instruction;
  (viii) community involvement and self-reliance.
212.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
212.221 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a visa.
212.222 The Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) the applicant has not effectively become re-established elsewhere;
and
  (b) permanent settlement in Australia:
    (i) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
    (ii) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
212.223 Grant of the visa would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 212 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 212 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 212,
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
212.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
212.225 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, and 5007 to 5009.
212.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 212 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 212 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
212.227 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
212.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria)
212.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
212.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 212.21.
212.312 (1) The written undertaking required under clause 212.213 in
respect of a person who is a member of the same family unit as the
applicant; and who satisfies the primary criteria, includes the applicant.
212.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
212.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 212 visa.
212.322 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
212.323 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 212 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
212.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
212.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
212.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
212.511 Permanent visa, permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
212.6 CONDITIONS
212.611 Entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister for
the purpose.
212.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
212.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
212.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 213-BURMESE IN THAILAND
213.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
213.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
213.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
213.212 The applicant is:
  (a) a citizen of Burma; and
  (b) resident in Thailand; and
  (c) subject to substantial discrimination in Burma.
213.213 (1) The applicant has produced a written undertaking of the kind
described in subclause (2) from:
  (a) an organisation that is accepted by the Minister as representing
the Burmese community in Australia; or
  (b) an established Community Refugee Settlement Scheme support group.
  (2) The undertaking is a written undertaking given to the Minister that
specifies assistance:
  (a) that the organisation will provide to the applicant, and the
applicant's dependants, after their entry to Australia; and
  (b) that is acceptable to the Minister, having regard to the needs of
the applicant and his or her dependants in the period of 6 months following
entry to Australia;
with regard to the following matters:
  (c) food, clothing, accommodation and household goods;
  (d) personal support;
  (e) access to community and public services;
  (f) obtaining employment;
  (g) language interpretation and securing English language instruction;
  (h) community involvement and self-reliance;
  (i) reimbursing the Commonwealth for its costs (if any) in providing
accommodation services to the applicant;
  (j) in the case of an applicant who has been provided with
accommodation by the Commonwealth-reporting to Immigration on progress in
the settlement of the applicant.
213.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
213.221 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
213.222 Grant of the visa would not result in the number of subclass 213
visas granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of subclass
213 visas specified, by Gazette Notice, for the purposes of this clause in
respect of that financial year.
213.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
213.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
213.225 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 213 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 213 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
213.226 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
213.227 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a visa.
213.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
213.31 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
213.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 213.21.
213.312 The undertaking made under clause 213.213 in respect of the person
who is a member of the same family unit as the applicants, and who
satisfies the primary criteria, includes the applicant.
213.32 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
213.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 213 visa.
213.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
213.324 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 213 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
213.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
213.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
213.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
213.511 Permanent visa, permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
213.6 CONDITIONS
213.611 First entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
213.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
213.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
213.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 214-CAMBODIAN
214.1 INTERPRETATION
214.111 (1) For the purposes of this Part, "eligible New Zealand citizen"
includes a person who, at all times between 1 September 1992 and 31 August
1994:
  (a) was a New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) was normally resident in Australia; and
  (c) was an exempt non-citizen; and
  (d) satisfied the requirements of subclauses (2) and (3).
  (2) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who:
  (a) has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to death or to
imprisonment, for at least 1 year; or
  (b) has been convicted of 2 or more crimes and sentenced to
imprisonment, for periods that add up to at least 1 year if:
    (i) any period concurrent with part of a longer period is disregarded;
and
    (ii) any periods not disregarded that are concurrent with each other
are treated as 1 period;
whether or not:
    (iii) the crimes were of the same kind; or
    (iv) the crimes were committed at the same time; or
    (v) the convictions were at the same time; or
    (vi) the sentencings were at the same time; or
    (vii) the periods were consecutive; or
  (c) has been charged with a crime and either:
    (i) found guilty of having committed the crime while of unsound mind;
or
    (ii) acquitted on the ground that the crime was committed while the
person was of unsound mind;
  (d) has been removed or deported from Australia or removed or deported
from another country; or
  (e) has been excluded from another country in the circumstances set out
in regulation 7.12 of the Migration (1993) Regulations;
where "sentenced to imprisonment" includes ordered to be confined in a
corrective institution.
  (3) A person satisfies the requirements of this subclause if he or she
is not a person who suffers from a disease or a physical or mental
condition of a kind set out in regulation 7.11 of the Migration (1993)
Regulations.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
214.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
214.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
214.211 (1) The applicant:
  (a) is usually a resident of Cambodia and is experiencing hardship in
Cambodia as a result of upheavals in that country over recent years; and
  (b) has close links with Australia.
  (2) For the purposes of subclause (1), an applicant has close links
with Australia if:
  (a) the applicant has a parent, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt,
uncle, niece or nephew who:
    (i) was an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident, or an
eligible New Zealand citizen on 1 October 1993; and
    (ii) continues to be an Australian citizen, Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen; and
    (iii) is usually resident in Australia; or
  (b) the applicant:
    (i) arrived in Australia by boat, without a visa or other authority,
between 28 November 1989 and 26 April 1991; and
    (ii) before that arrival was usually a resident of Cambodia; and
    (iii) was in detention under the Act for most of his or her stay in
Australia; and
    (iv) subsequently returned to Cambodia.
214.212 The applicant has produced a written undertaking of the kind
described in subclause (2) from:
  (a) a person mentioned in paragraph 214.211 (2); or
  (b) a community organisation; or
  (c) another group in Australia that is accepted by the Minister as
having close links to the applicant.
  (2) The undertaking is an undertaking or to the Minister that specifies
assistance:
  (a) that the person, organisation or group will provide to the
applicant, and the applicant's dependants, after their entry to Australia;
and
  (b) that is acceptable to the Minister, having regard to the needs of
the applicant and his or her dependants in the period of 6 months following
entry to Australia;
with regard to the following matters:
  (c) food, clothing, accommodation and household goods;
  (d) personal support;
  (e) access to community and public services;
  (f) obtaining employment;
  (g) language interpretation and securing English language instruction;
  (h) community involvement and self-reliance;
  (i) reimbursing the Commonwealth for its costs (if any) in providing
accommodation services to the applicant;
  (j) in the case of an applicant who has been provided with
accommodation by the Commonwealth - reporting to Immigration on progress in
the settlement of the applicant.
214.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
214.221 The Minister is satisfied that permanent settlement in Australia:
  (a) is the appropriate course for the applicant; and
  (b) would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
214.222 The applicant, and each member of the family unit of the applicant
born before the lodging of the application who is also an applicant for a
subclass 214 visa, has been resident in Cambodia for a period of 12 months
immediately before the time of decision.
214.224 Grant of the visa would not result in the number of subclass 214
visas granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of subclass
214 visas specified, by Gazette Notice, for the purposes of this clause in
respect of that financial year.
214.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
214.226 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
214.227 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 214 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010; and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 214 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
214.228 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child
whose application was combined with the applicant's, the Minister is
satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
214.229 The Minister is satisfied that there are compelling reasons for
giving special consideration to granting the applicant a visa.
214.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
214.31 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
214.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 214.21.
214.312 The undertaking, made under clause 214.212 in respect of a person
who is a member of the same family unit as the applicant; and who satisfies
the primary criteria, includes the applicant.
214.32 Criteria to be satisfied at the time of decision
214.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 214 visa.
214.322 Each member of the family unit of the applicant who was born before
the lodging of the application, who is also an applicant for a subclass 214
visa, has been resident in Cambodia for a period of 12 months immediately
before the time of decision.
214.323 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if he or she has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
214.324 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 214 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
214.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
214.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
214.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
214.511 Permanent visa, permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia within 4 years of grant.
214.6 CONDITIONS
214.611 First entry must be made before the date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
214.612 Condition 8502 may be imposed.
214.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
214.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 300-PROSPECTIVE MARRIAGE
300.1 INTERPRETATION
300.111 In this Part:
  "prospective spouse" means the Australian citizen, Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen referred to in clause 300.211;
  "the parties" means the applicant and the prospective spouse.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen", "guardian" and "parent" are defined
in regulation 1.03.)
300.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
300.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
300.211 The applicant intends to marry a person who is:
  (a) an Australian citizen; or
  (b) an Australian permanent resident; or
  (c) an eligible New Zealand citizen.
300.212 There is no impediment to the marriage in Australian law.
300.213 The applicant is sponsored by:
  (a) if the prospective spouse has turned 18-the prospective spouse; or
  (b) if the prospective spouse has not turned 18-a person who:
    (i) is:
      (A) an Australian citizen; or
      (B) an Australian permanent resident; or
      (C) an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
    (ii) is a parent or guardian of the prospective spouse; and
    (iii) has turned 18.
300.214 Unless the marriage has been arranged in accordance with
traditional custom observed by the family of either or both of the parties,
the parties are known to each other personally.
300.215 The applicant establishes:
  (a) that the parties genuinely intend to marry; and
  (b) that the marriage is to take place not later than 6 months after
the expected date of first arrival of the applicant in Australia.
300.216 The Minister is satisfied that the parties intend to live in a
genuine and continuing marital relationship.
300.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
300.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
clauses 300.211 to 300.212 and 300.214 to 300.216.
300.222 The sponsorship of the applicant under clause 300.213 has been
approved by the Minister and is still in force.
300.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
300.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
300.225 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
300.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4010;
and
  (b) if the person has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the
Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person
to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
300.227 If either:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who
made a combined application with the applicant; or
  (b) a child who:
    (i) is usually resident with the applicant; and
    (ii) has not turned 18;
made a combined application with the applicant;
the Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 300 visa to the
child as a family unit member of the applicant would not prejudice the
rights and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship
of, or access to, the child.
300.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
300.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
300.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies the primary criteria in
clauses 300.211 to 300.212 and 300.214 to 300.216.
300.312 The sponsorship referred to in clause 300.213 in respect of the
person who satisfies the primary criteria includes sponsorship of the
applicant.
300.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
300.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 300 visa.
300.322 The sponsorship referred to in clause 300.312 has been approved by
the Minister and is still in force.
300.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4010.
300.324 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies the special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
300.325 If an assurance of support is required in respect of the person who
satisfies the primary criteria, either:
  (a) the applicant is included in the assurance of support given in
respect of that person and that assurance has been accepted by the
Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support has been given in relation to the
applicant, and has been accepted by the Minister.
300.326 If the applicant is a dependent child of a person who is a holder
of a subclass 300 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the
visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any
person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
300.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
300.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
300.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
300.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until the date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
300.6 CONDITIONS
300.611 First entry must be made before a date specified by the Minister
for the purpose.
300.612 If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria, conditions 8515
and 8519.
300.613 If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria, condition 8502 may
be imposed.
300.614 If the applicant satisfies the secondary criteria, condition 8520.
300.615 If the applicant satisfies the secondary criteria, either or both
of conditions 8515 and 8502 may be imposed.
300.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
300.71 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 302-EMERGENCY (PERMANENT VISA APPLICANT)
302.1 INTERPRETATION
302.111 In this Part:
  "principal visa", in relation to an applicant for a subclass 302 visa,
means the visa for which he or she originally applied;
  "remaining criteria" in relation to an applicant for, or holder of, a
subclass 302 visa, means the public interest criteria applicable to the
class of permanent entry visa for which the applicant originally applied
that have not been satisfied at the time of his or her application for a
subclass 302 visa.
302.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
302.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
302.211 (1) If the application is made outside Australia:
  (a) the principal visa is a permanent visa of a class for which
applications must be made outside Australia; and
  (b) the applicant has satisfied all of the criteria for the grant of
the principal visa other than the remaining criteria.
(NOTE: One of the primary criteria for the grant of a permanent visa is
that all members of the family unit satisfy the relevant public interest
criteria. Therefore, the applicant who must satisfy the primary criteria
for the permanent visa can satisfy those criteria only if he or she and all
members of the family unit satisfy the remaining criteria.)
302.212 If the applicant is in Australia, the applicant is the holder of a
subclass 302 visa, and has not yet satisfied the remaining criteria.
302.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
302.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 302.211.
302.222 If the application is made outside Australia, the Minister is
satisfied that the applicant has urgent and compelling reasons for
travelling to Australia before the remaining criteria have been satisfied.
302.223 If the application is made in Australia, the Minister is satisfied
that it was not possible for the applicant to satisfy the remaining
criteria before the expiry of the period specified in the subclass 302 visa
held by the applicant.
302.224 If the application is made in Australia, the Minister is satisfied
that it would be unreasonable to require the person to leave Australia.
302.225 The Minister is satisfied that it is likely that the remaining
criteria will be satisfied by the applicant and all members of the
applicant's family unit after entry to Australia or during a further period
of temporary stay in Australia.
302.226 The Minister is satisfied that the entry to, or continued stay in
Australia of, the applicant before the remaining criteria have been
satisfied would not be contrary to the interests of Australia.
302.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
302.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
302.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of, and has made a
combined application with, a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 302.21.
302.312 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant has
substantially complied with the conditions to which the visa held by the
applicant was granted.
302.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
302.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 302 visa.
302.322 If the application is lodged outside Australia:
  (a) the principal visa is a permanent visa of a class for which
applications must be lodged outside Australia; and
  (b) the applicant:
    (i) has satisfied all criteria for the grant of that visa; or
    (ii) has satisfied all criteria for the grant of that visa other
than the remaining criteria.
302.323 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 302 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
302.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
302.411 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
302.412 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant must be in
the migration zone at time of grant.
302.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
302.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
302.6 CONDITIONS
302.611 Condition 8301 or 8302 may be imposed.
302.612 Any other condition may be imposed that could be applied to the
principal visa.
302.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
302.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 303-EMERGENCY
303.1 INTERPRETATION
303.111 In this Part:
  "principal visa", in relation to an applicant for a subclass 303 visa,
means the visa referred to in paragraph 303.212 (a); and
  "remaining criteria", in relation to an applicant for a subclass 303
visa, means the criteria referred to in paragraph 303.212 (b) as not having
been satisfied.
303.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. Members of the family unit who are applicants for a visa of
this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
303.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
303.211 The applicant is not an Australian permanent resident.
303.212 The applicant:
  (a) is an applicant for a Business (Temporary), Cultural/Social
(Temporary), Educational (Temporary), Expatriate, Family Relationship,
Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependent, Working Holiday, Domestic
Worker, or Student (Temporary) visa; and
  (b) has satisfied all of the criteria for the grant of that visa other
than:
    (i) public interest criteria; or
    (ii) criteria that can be satisfied only after the applicant has
entered Australia.
303.213 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a subclass 303 visa; or
  (b) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held was of a kind specified in paragraph
        (a); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies whichever of schedule 6 criteria 6004,
6005 and 6006 applies to the principal visa.
303.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
303.221 (1) The applicant seeks, by request to the Minister in accordance
with subclause (2), to travel to Australia before the remaining criteria
have been satisfied.
  (2) The request referred to in subclause (1):
  (a) must be in writing; and
  (b) must include a written statement of the applicant's urgent and
compelling reasons for travelling to Australia before the remaining
criteria have been satisfied.
303.222 The Minister, on consideration of the request referred to in clause
303.221, is satisfied that the applicant has urgent and compelling reasons
for travelling to Australia before the remaining criteria are satisfied for
the purposes of granting the principal visa.
303.223 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant's entry to Australia
before the remaining criteria have been satisfied would not be contrary to
the interests of Australia.
303.224 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant is reasonably likely
to satisfy the remaining criteria for the purposes of granting the
principal visa after the applicant's entry to Australia.
303.225 If the application was made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
303.226 If the application was made in the migration zone:
  (a) the applicant establishes that it was not possible to satisfy the
remaining criteria before the visa that he or she holds ceases; and
  (b) the applicant applies to remain in Australia in circumstances where
the remaining criteria have not been satisfied; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require
the applicant to leave Australia.
303.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
303.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
303.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 303 visa.
303.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) the person satisfying the primary criteria is, or is expected soon
to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member
of the family unit of the person satisfying the primary criteria.
303.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions that apply to:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant ; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful non-citizen.
303.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
303.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 303 visa.
303.322 The person who satisfies the primary criteria produces to the
Minister evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the
period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the
working rights of both that person and the applicant.
303.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
303.324 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, satisfies special return criteria 5001,
5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
303.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
303.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
303.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
303.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
303.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until the a date specified by the Minister.
303.6 CONDITIONS
303.611 Condition 8302.
303.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
303.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
303.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 305-INTERDEPENDENCY
305.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
305.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
305.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
305.211 (1) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant has turned 18; and
  (b) the applicant has a relationship with a person (in this clause
called "the sponsor") who is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (c) the sponsor is not a member of the family unit, or otherwise a
relative, of the applicant; and
  (d) the relationship between the applicant and the sponsor involves:
    (i) residing together; and
    (ii) being closely interdependent; and
    (iii) having a continuing commitment to mutual emotional and
financial support; and
  (e) the applicant is sponsored by the sponsor; and
  (f) the Minister is satisfied that the relationship referred to in
paragraph (d):
    (i) is genuine; and
    (ii) subject to subclause (2), has existed for a period of at least
6 months; and
    (iii) will continue.
  (2) The Minister may, for the purposes of subparagraph (1) (f) (ii), on
written application, specify a period shorter than 6 months if the Minister
is satisfied that:
  (a) there are exceptional circumstances affecting the sponsor and the
applicant; and
  (b) there are compelling reasons for specifying that shorter period.
305.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
305.221 An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
subclause 305.211 (1); and
  (b) the sponsorship of the applicant under paragraph 305.211 (1) (e)
has been approved by the Minister.
305.222 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
305.223 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009.
305.224 (1) Each dependent child of the applicant who is an applicant for a
subclass 305 visa satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007
to 4009.
(2) Each dependent child of the applicant who is not an applicant for a
subclass 305 visa satisfies:
  (a) public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the Minister is
satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require that child to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
305.225 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of a subclass 305 visa to
the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any other
person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, a dependent child
of the applicant.
305.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
dependent children of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
305.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
305.311 An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is a dependent child of, and made a combined
application with,, a person who satisfies, or has satisfied, the criteria
for a subclass 305 visa; and
  (b) the sponsorship of that other person includes the applicant.
305.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
305.321 The applicant continues to be the dependent child of a person who,
having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a subclass 305
visa.
305.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
305.323 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5002, 5004, 5006, 5008 and 5009.
305.324 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
305.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
305.411 The applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
305.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
305.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, and enter,
Australia for 12 months from date of grant.
305.6 CONDITIONS
305.611 First entry must be made within 6 months from date of grant.
305.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
305.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 410-RETIREMENT
410.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
410.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
410.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: No criteria to be satisfied at time of application outside
Australia)
410.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Domestic Worker
(Temporary) subclass 427 (Overseas Executive), Emergency (subclass 303),
Educational, Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement,
Supported Dependant or Working Holiday (Temporary) visa, or
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Longer Stay (Visitor), Short
Stay (Visitor), or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for a visa specified in
paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004, and
3005.
410.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
410.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and by an applicant who does not hold a
subclass 410 visa;
the applicant satisfies clauses 410.222 to 410.229.
410.222 The applicant has turned 55.
410.223 If the applicant intends to settle in Australia with the
applicant's spouse:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant does not include any other person
dependent on the applicant or spouse; and
  (b) the combined resources of the applicant and spouse available for
transfer to Australia are not less than:
    (i) $500,000; or
    (ii) $150,000 and, in addition, pension rights or capital for
investment (or both), being in total money and entitlements sufficient to
provide an annual income of not less than $35,000; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that neither the applicant nor the
applicant's spouse intends to take employment in Australia.
410.224 If the applicant intends to settle in Australia without a spouse:
  (a) the family unit of the applicant does not include a person dependent
on the applicant; and
  (b) the resources of the applicant available for transfer to Australia
are not less than:
    (i) $500,000; or
    (ii) $150,000 and in addition pension rights or capital for investment
(or both), being in total money and entitlements sufficient to provide an
annual income of not less than $35,000; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant does not intend to take
employment in Australia.
410.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
410.226 If the application was made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and 5009.
410.227 If the application was made in the migration zone, and at the time
of application, the applicant, having satisfied the primary criteria, for a
Student (temporary) visa was the holder of a visa of that class:
  (a) if the applicant is a private subsidised student, the Minister is
satisfied that it would not be detrimental to Australia's policies in
respect of overseas students to grant the visa; and
  (b) if the applicant is a student under a scholarship scheme or training
program approved by AIDAB, he or she has the support of AIDAB for the grant
of the visa.
410.228 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
410.229 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
410.230 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 410 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 410 visa.
410.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
410.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
410.311 The applicant is the spouse of a person who has applied for a
subclass 410 visa.
410.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the applicant's spouse:
  (a) the spouse is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia with the
spouse.
410.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions that apply or applied to:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant ; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen
410.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
410.321 The applicant continues to be the spouse of a person who, having
satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a subclass 410 Retirement
visa.
410.322 The spouse produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to
support the applicant during the period of stay applied for by the
applicant.
410.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
410.324 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
410.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
410.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
410.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: CHARGES: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
410.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
410.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
410.6 CONDITIONS
410.611 Condition 8101.
410.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
410.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
410.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 411-EXCHANGE
411.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
411.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
411.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: No criteria to be satisfied at time of application outside
Australia.)
411.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Expatriate, Family
Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant, Working
Holiday (Temporary), subclass 303, Educational or subclass 427 visa;
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay
(Visitor), or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for a visa specified in
paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and
3005.
411.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
411.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone by an applicant who does not hold a
subclass 411 visa;
the applicant satisfies clauses 411.222 to 411.227.
411.222 If the application relates to a staff exchange, the Minister is
satisfied that:
  (a) the exchange position in Australia to which the application relates
is a skilled position; and
  (b) the arrangements envisaged under the exchange would provide a person
(in this clause called "the resident") who is an Australian citizen or an
Australian permanent resident with the opportunity to obtain experience
with a reciprocating organisation overseas; and
  (c) the same position as that currently held by the resident, or an
equivalent position in Australia, will be available to the resident on the
completion of the exchange; and
  (d) the exchange will be of benefit both to the applicant and the
resident.
411.223 If the application relates to an agreement between a government in
Australia and the government of another country:
  (a) the Minister is satisfied that the application meets the requirements
of the agreement; and
  (b) the applicant has produced evidence that the applicant's stay in
Australia under the agreement has been agreed to by the competent
authorities in Australia and in the other country.
411.224 If the application is made in the migration zone:
  (a) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and,
  (b) if at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
Student (temporary) visa:
    (i) the applicant has successfully completed a course in Australia at
Associate Diploma level or above; and
    (ii) if the applicant is a private subsidised student:
      (A) the applicant establishes a strong case on economic grounds for
the grant of the visa; and
      (B) the Minister is satisfied that it would not be detrimental to
Australia's policies in respect of overseas students to grant the visa; and
  (c) if the applicant is a student under a scholarship scheme or training
program approved by AIDAB, the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the
grant of the visa.
411.225 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and 5009.
411.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
411.227  If the application is made in Australia and the applicant was the
holder of a subclass 411 visa at the time of application, the applicant
satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that the
applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the grant
of a subclass 411 visa.
411.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
411.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
411.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 411 visa.
411.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the member of the family unit satisfying the
primary criteria:
  (a) that member of the family unit is, or is expected soon to be, in
Australia; and
  (b) that applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member
of the family unit of the person.
411.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions that apply or applied to:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant ; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen.
411.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
411.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 411 visa.
411.322 The member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that member of the family unit and
the applicant.
411.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
411.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
411.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
411.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
411.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
411.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
411.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
411.6 CONDITIONS
411.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, condition 8107.
411.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
411.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
411.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 412-INDEPENDENT EXECUTIVE
412.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
412.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
412.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: There are no criteria to be satisfied at time of application if the
application is made outside Australia.)
412.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is :
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Expatriate,
Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant,
Working Holiday (Temporary), subclass 300 or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay
(Visitor) or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for a visa specified in
paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and
3005.
412.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
412.221 The applicant establishes that he or she is acting as an individual
intending to establish a new business in Australia.
412.222 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant has a successful
business record.
412.223 The applicant has established that he or she has lodged in
Australia personal assets (by way of cash or other unencumbered assets or
both) adequate to establish and conduct the business referred to in clause
412.221 and in any case not less than:
  (a) $350,000; or
  (b) a lesser amount, if the Minister considers that:
    (i) that lesser amount is adequate to allow the applicant to establish
a particular business; and
    (ii) the business has special characteristics that will provide
Australia with substantial international trade or other economic benefits.
412.224 The Minister is satisfied that the establishment of the new
business referred to in clause 412.221 will provide Australia with
substantial international trade or other economic benefits.
412.225 The applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant intends to
comply with any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
412.226 If the application is made in the migration zone:
  (a) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and,
  (b) if at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
Student (temporary) visa:
    (i) the applicant has successfully completed a course in Australia at
Associate Diploma level or above; and
    (ii) if the applicant is a private subsidised student:
      (A) the applicant establishes a strong case on economic grounds for
the grant of the visa; and
      (B) the Minister is satisfied that it would not be detrimental to
Australia's policies in respect of overseas students to grant the visa; and
    (iii) if the applicant is a student under a scholarship scheme or
training program approved by AIDAB, the applicant has the support of AIDAB
for the grant of the visa.
412.227 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5008 and 5009.
412.228 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
412.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
412.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
412.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 412 visa.
412.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
the family unit .
412.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions that apply or applied to:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant ; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen.
412.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
412.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 412 visa.
412.323 The member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that family unit member and the
applicant.
412.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
412.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special
re-entry criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5009 and 5010.
412.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
412.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
412.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
412.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
412.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
412.6 CONDITIONS
412.611 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
412.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
412.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 413-EXECUTIVE
413.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
413.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
413.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: There are no criteria to be satisfied at time of application if the
application is made outside Australia.)
413.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Expatriate,
Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant,
Working Holiday (Temporary), subclass 303 or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay
(Visitor) or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and
3005.
413.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
413.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3) or
(4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant intends to establish in Australia a branch of an
overseas company; and
  (b) the establishment of the branch will provide Australia with
substantial international trade or other economic benefits.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant has been appointed by a company operating in Australia
to be the national managing executive or a deputy national managing
executive or a state manager; and
  (b) the company is operating as a business; and
  (c) in the case of an applicant who intends to stay in Australia for more
than 4 months, the applicant is sponsored by the company.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant is a senior executive of a company operating in Australia (not
being the national managing executive or a deputy national managing
executive or a state manager), and the applicant establishes:
  (a) that the position to which the application relates carries
substantial executive responsibility; and
  (b) that the applicant's qualifications for the position are appropriate;
and
  (c) that the position is a full-time position; and
  (d) that the position is to be adequately paid, having regard to
Australian levels of remuneration and conditions; and
  (e) that the company is operating as a business; and
  (f) if the applicant intends to stay in Australia for more than 4 months,
that the applicant is sponsored by the company; and
  (g) if the Minister so requires, that labour market requirements have
been met.
413.222 The applicant produces a statement by the company employing the
applicant which satisfies the Minister that the employment of the applicant
in Australia would be of benefit to Australia.
413.223 If sponsorship is required under subclause 413.221 (3) or (4):
  (a) a sponsorship of the applicant has been approved by the Minister; and
  (b) the sponsorship fee specified in regulation 7.27 has been paid.
413.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
413.225 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
413.226 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
413.227 If the application is made inside the migration zone the applicant
has complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any)
held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
413.228 If at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
Student (Temporary) visa:
  (a) the applicant has successfully completed a course in Australia at
associate diploma level or above; and
  (b) the applicant has special occupational or professional skills (or
both); and
  (c) if sponsorship is a requirement, the intended employer establishes
that a person with those skills is not reasonably available in Australia;
and
  (d) if the applicant is a private subsidised student:
    (i) if sponsorship is a requirement, the sponsor establishes a strong
case on economic grounds for the grant of the visa; and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that it would not be detrimental to
Australia's policies in respect of overseas students to grant the visa; and
  (e) if the applicant is a student under a scholarship scheme or training
program approved by AIDAB, the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the
grant of the visa.
413.229 (1) Subject to subclause (2), if:
  (a) the applicant was, at the time of application, the holder of:
    (i) a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency (subclass 303),
Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, or Supported
Dependant Class visa, Border (Temporary) or subclass 427 visa; or
    (ii) a Confirmatory (Temporary) visa which was granted on the grounds
that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas specified in
subparagraph (i); and
  (b) the grant of the visa would allow the applicant a total period of
stay in Australia of more than 4 months as a temporary resident;
the applicant is sponsored by an intended employer.
  (2) Despite subclause (1), an applicant who meets the criterion set out
in subclause 413.221 (2) need not be sponsored by an intended employer.
413.230 If at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or Working Holiday (Temporary)
visa:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is sponsored by the intended employer; or
    (ii) is intending to set up a branch in Australia of an overseas
company and has the support in writing of that overseas company; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) it has not been possible to find an employee in Australia who is
suitable for the position; or
    (ii) in the circumstances, the employer should not be required to seek
a suitable employee in Australia.
413.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are family unit
members of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
413.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
413.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 413 visa.
413.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit.
413.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions that apply or applied to:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant ; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen.
413.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
413.321 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 413 visa.
413.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria.
413.323 If sponsorship is not required for the member of the family unit
who satisfies the primary criteria, that family unit member produces to the
Minister evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the
period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the
working rights of both that family unit member and the applicant.
413.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
413.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
413.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
413.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
413.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
413.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
413.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
413.6 CONDITIONS
413.611 If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria: condition 8107.
413.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
413.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
413.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 414-SPECIALIST
414.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
414.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
414.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: There are no criteria to be satisfied at the time of application
outside Australia.)
414.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Expatriate,
Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant,
Working Holiday, subclass 303 or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Student, Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or
Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory visa that was granted on the grounds
that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas specified in
paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and
3005.
414.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
414.221 The applicant:
  (a) seeks to enter or further stay in Australia in accordance with a
labour agreement and establishes:
    (i) that the requirements of the labour agreement have been met; and
    (ii) that the applicant's skills and experience are suitable for the
position to which the application relates; or
  (b) seeks to enter or further stay in Australia otherwise than in
accordance with a labour agreement and establishes that:
    (i) the applicant has been offered employment in a position currently
available in a business enterprise in Australia; and
    (ii) that position has not been created solely to secure the entry of
the applicant into Australia; and
    (iii) the applicant has trade, technical or professional skills not
readily available in Australia, unless the Minister is satisfied that, in
the circumstances of the case, the intended employer should not be required
to find a suitable employee in Australia for the position; and
    (iv) the applicant's skills and experience are suitable for the
position to which the application relates; and
    (v) the position is to be adequately paid, having regard to Australian
levels of remuneration and conditions; and
    (vi) the position is a full-time position; and
    (vii) the intended employer has a satisfactory record of, or
demonstrates commitment towards, training in its business operations in
Australia.
414.222 The applicant produces a statement by the intended employer which
satisfies the Minister that the employment of the applicant in Australia
would be of benefit to Australia.
414.223 If the application is made outside Australia and is in respect of a
stay in Australia of more than 4 months, the applicant is sponsored by the
intended employer of the applicant in the business enterprise in Australia
in which the applicant has been offered a position.
414.224 If sponsorship is required under clause 414.223:
  (a) a sponsorship of the applicant has been approved by the Minister; and
  (b) the sponsorship fee specified in regulation 7.27 has been paid.
414.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
414.226 The applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant intends to
comply with any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
414.227 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
414.228 If the application is made in the migration zone:
  (a) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and,
  (b) if at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
Student (temporary) visa:
    (i) the applicant has successfully completed a course in Australia at
Associate Diploma level or above; and,
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that:
      (A) it has not been possible to find a person who is suitable for the
position in which the applicant's intended employer proposes to employ the
applicant; or
      (B) in the circumstances of the case, the intended employer should
not be required to seek a suitable employee in Australia; and
    (iii) the applicant is sponsored by an intended employer that is able
to establish that a person with those skills is not reasonably available in
Australia; and
    (iv) if the applicant is a private subsidised student:
      (A) the sponsor establishes a strong case on economic grounds for the
grant of the visa; and
      (B) the Minister is satisfied that it would not be detrimental to
Australia's policies in respect of overseas students to grant the visa; and
    (v) if the applicant is a student under a scholarship scheme or
training program approved by AIDAB, the applicant has the support of AIDAB
for the grant of the visa; and,
414.229 (1) If:
  (a) the applicant was, at the time of application, the holder of:
    (i) Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Expatriate, Family
Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant, subclass
303, subclass 773 or subclass 427 visa; or
    (ii) the holder of a Confirmatory visa which was granted on the grounds
that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas specified in
subparagraph (i); and
  (b) the grant of the visa would allow the applicant a total period of
stay in Australia of more than 4 months as a temporary resident;
the applicant is sponsored by an intended employer.
  (2) If at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a Long
Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or Working Holiday visa, the applicant
is sponsored by the intended employer.
414.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
414.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
414.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 414 visa.
414.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the member of the family unit satisfying the
primary criteria:
  (a) that member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit.
414.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen was subject.
414.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
414.321 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who,
having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a subclass 414
visa.
414.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria.
414.323 If sponsorship is not required for the member of the family unit
who satisfies the primary criteria, that family unit member produces to the
Minister evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the
period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the
working rights of both that family unit member and the applicant.
414.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
414.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
414.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
414.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
414.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
414.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
414.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
414.6 CONDITIONS
414.611 If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria, condition 8107.
414.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
414.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
414.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 415-FOREIGN GOVERNMENT AGENCY
415.1 INTERPRETATION
415.111 In this Part:
  "foreign government agency" includes an organisation conducted under
official auspices in a foreign country and operating in Australia to foster
the culture of the foreign country.
415.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
415.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: No criteria to be satisfied at time of application outside
Australia.)
415.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Emergency (subclass 303),
Educational, Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement,
Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or Border
(Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied one of the criteria for a visa
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and
3005.
415.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
415.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone by an applicant who does not hold a
subclass 415 visa;
the applicant satisfies clauses 415.222 to 415.231.
415.222 The applicant is:
  (a) a person who:
    (i) seeks to enter Australia to be employed as a representative of a
foreign government agency that does not enjoy official status in Australia;
and
    (ii) would not, as a representative of that kind, enjoy official status
in Australia; or
  (b) a person who:
    (i) seeks to enter Australia temporarily under an agreement between
Australia and another country; and
    (ii) has produced evidence that the applicant's stay in Australia under
the agreement has been agreed to by the competent authorities in Australia
and in that other country; or
  (c) a foreign language teacher intending to work in an Australian school
but as an employee of a foreign government.
415.223 (1) If the applicant is an applicant to whom paragraph 415.222 (a)
or (c) applies:
  (a) in the case of an applicant:
    (i) who intends to stay in Australia four months or less; or
    (ii) seeks entry to Australia to direct the operations in Australia of
the British Council, the Alliance Francaise, the Goethe Institute, or the
Italian Cultural Institute; the applicant produces a statement from the
Foreign Ministry of the foreign government concerned supporting the
application; or
  (b) in any other case-the applicant produces evidence of sponsorship by a
foreign government agency.
415.224 If sponsorship is required under clause 415.223:
  (a) a sponsorship of the applicant has been approved by the Minister; and
  (b) the sponsorship fee specified in regulation 7.27 has been paid.
415.225 The applicant produces a statement which satisfies the Minister
that the employment of the applicant in Australia would be of benefit to
Australia.
415.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
415.227 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
415.228 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
415.229 (1) Subject to subclause (2), if the application is made in the
migration zone, and:
  (a) the applicant was, at the time of application, the holder of:
    (i) a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency (subclass 303),
Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported
Dependant visa, Border (Temporary) visa or subclass 427 visa; or
    (ii) the holder of a Confirmatory (Temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in subparagraph (i); and
  (b) the grant of the visa would allow the applicant a total period of
stay in Australia of more than 4 months as a temporary resident; and
  (c) the applicant is an applicant to whom paragraph 415.222 (a) or (c)
applies;
the applicant is sponsored by an intended employer.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant who:
  (a) is the holder of a subclass 415 visa; and
  (b) entered Australia as a person to whom an agreement mentioned in
paragraph 415.222 (b) applied; and
  (c) continues to be such a person.
415.230 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
415.231 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 415 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 415 visa.
415.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
415.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
415.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 415 visa.
415.312 If the application is made outside Australia and is made separately
from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit .
415.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions that apply or applied to:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant ; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen.
415.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
415.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 415 visa.
415.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria.
415.323 If sponsorship is not required for the family unit member who
satisfies the primary criteria, that family unit member produces to the
Minister evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the
period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the
working rights of both that family unit member and the applicant.
415.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
415.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
415.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
415.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
415.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: CHARGES: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
415.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
415.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
415.6 CONDITIONS
415.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, condition 8107.
415.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
415.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
415.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 416-SPECIAL PROGRAM
416.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
416.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
416.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: No criteria to be satisfied at time of application outside
Australia.)
416.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Emergency (subclass 303),
Educational, Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement,
Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or Border
(Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and
3005.
416.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
416.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
416 visa;
the applicant satisfies clauses 416.222 to 416.226.
416.222 The applicant produces evidence that the applicant:
  (a) is the holder of a Churchill Fellowship; or
  (b) is applying for the visa for the purpose of taking part in a youth
exchange program approved in writing by the Secretary; or
  (c) has been nominated by a community-based non-commercial organisation
in Australia to take part in a program of activity that has the object of
cultural enrichment or community benefits and both that organisation and
that program have been approved by the Secretary for the purposes of this
paragraph.
416.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
416.224 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
416.225 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
416.226 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
416.227 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 416 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 416 visa.
416.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
416.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
416.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 416 visa.
416.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit.
416.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen was subject.
416.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
416.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who having satisfied the primary criteria is the holder of a
subclass 416 visa.
416.322 The member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that family unit member and the
applicant.
416.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
416.324 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
416.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
416.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
416.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
416.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
416.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
416.6 CONDITIONS
416.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, condition 8107.
416.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
416.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
416.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 417-WORKING HOLIDAY
417.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
417.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: all applicants must be satisfy the primary criteria.)
417.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
417.211 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant
satisfies clauses 417.213 to 417.217.
417.212 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
either:
  (a) is the holder of a subclass 417 visa; or
  (b) is the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa granted on the
grounds of satisfying the primary criteria for the grant of a subclass 417
visa; or
  (c) is not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was a subclass 417
visa; and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
the applicant satisfies clauses 417.213 to 417.216 and 417.218.
417.213 The applicant has no dependent children.
417.214 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant is a citizen of the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, the
Netherlands, Canada or Japan and either:
  (a) has turned 18 but has not turned 26; or
  (b) has turned 26 but has not turned 31 and the Minister is satisfied
that the applicant's entry to Australia would be of benefit to the
applicant and to Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant is not a citizen of a country referred to in subclause (2) and:
  (a) the applicant has turned 18 but has not turned 26; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant's entry to Australia
would be of benefit to the applicant and to Australia.
417.215 The application is made:
  (a) if the applicant is a citizen of the United Kingdom, the Republic of
Ireland, the Netherlands or Canada, in any country; or
  (b) if the applicant is not a citizen of a country referred to in
paragraph (a), in the country of which the applicant is a citizen.
417.216 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant:
  (a) seeks to enter Australia as a genuine visitor whose principal purpose
is to spend a holiday in Australia; and
  (b) has sufficient money for:
    (i) the fare to the applicant's intended overseas destination on
leaving Australia; and
    (ii) personal support for the purposes of a working holiday; and
  (c) has a reasonable prospect of obtaining employment in Australia; and
  (d) will not undertake any studies in Australia other than an English
language course.
417.217 The applicant has not previously entered Australia as the holder of
a subclass 417 visa.
417.218 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
417.219 If the application is made in the migration zone, the total of:
  (a) the period for which the applicant would be authorised to remain in
Australia by the visa sought; and
  (b) the period during which the applicant has already stayed in
Australia;
would not exceed 12 months.
417.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
417.221 (1) If the application is made:
  (a) outside Australia; or,
  (b) inside the migration zone, by an applicant who does not hold a
subclass 417 visa;
the applicant:
  (c) continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 417.211 to 417.218; and.
  (d) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and 4010.
417.222 If the application is lodged outside Australia, and if the
applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
417.223 If the application is made inside the migration zone and the
applicant was the holder of a subclass 417 visa at the time of application,
the Minister is satisfied that there is no reason to believe that the
applicant does not continue to satisfy the criteria for the grant, before
entry, of a subclass 417 visa.
417.224 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
417.225 Approval of the application would not result in either:
  (a) the number of subclass 417 visas granted in a financial year
exceeding the maximum number of subclass 417 visas, as determined by
Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that financial year; or
  (b) the number of visas of particular classes, including subclass 417,
granted in a financial year exceeding the maximum number of visas of those
classes, as determined by Gazette Notice, that may be granted in that
financial year.
417.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
417.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
417.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant is
in the migration zone at time of grant.
417.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant is
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
417.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
417.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
417.6 CONDITIONS
417.611 Condition 8108.
417.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
417.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
417.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 418-EDUCATIONAL
418.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this subclass.)
418.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
418.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: No criteria to be satisfied at time of application outside
Australia.)
418.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Expatriate,
Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant,
Working Holiday, subclass 303 visa, subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay
(Visitor) or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for a visa specified in
paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005;
or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and
3005.
418.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
418.221 The applicant:
  (a) has been appointed:
    (i) to a full-time position at an Australian tertiary education
institution or research institution, being an academic position or the
position of a librarian, technician or laboratory demonstrator; or
    (ii) to a full-time position at an Australian tertiary education
institution or research institution to undertake graduate or post-doctoral
research; or
    (iii) to a full-time position as a teacher at an Australian school or
technical college, not being a tertiary education institution; and
  (b) has provided with the application a letter of appointment from the
relevant institution, school or college; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that the applicant intends to comply with any
conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
418.222 If the application is in respect of a proposed stay in Australia of
more than 4 months, the applicant is sponsored by the relevant institution,
school or college.
418.223 If sponsorship of the applicant is required under clause 418.222,
at the time when the sponsorship is approved:
  (a) the relevant institution, school or college satisfies the Minister
that it has not been possible to find a suitable person in Australia for
appointment to the position; or
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that there is no need to seek a suitable
person in Australia for appointment to the position.
418.224 If sponsorship is required under clause 418.222:
  (a) a sponsorship of the applicant has been approved by the Minister; and
  (b) the sponsorship fee prescribed by regulation 7.27 has been paid.
418.225 If the applicant seeks to enter Australia in accordance with a
labour agreement, the applicant establishes that:
  (a) the requirements of the labour agreement have been met; and
  (b) the applicant's skills and experience are suitable for the position
to which the application relates.
418.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
418.227 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
418.228 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
418.229 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a Student (Temporary) visa at the time of application,:
  (a) the applicant has successfully completed a course of study in
Australia leading to an associate diploma or above; and
  (b) the applicant is sponsored by an educational or research institution
that is able to establish that a person with those skills is not reasonably
available in Australia; and
  (c) if the applicant is a private subsidised student:
    (i) the sponsor establishes a strong case on economic grounds for the
grant of the visa; and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that it would not be detrimental to
Australia's policies in respect of overseas students to grant the visa; and
  (d) if the applicant is a student under a scholarship scheme or training
program approved by AIDAB, the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the
grant of the visa.
418.230 If the application is made in the migration zone:
  (a) the applicant was, at the time of application, the holder of:
    (i) a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency (subclass 303),
Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported
Dependant or Border (Temporary) visa; or
    (ii) the holder of a Confirmatory (Temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in subparagraph (i); and
  (b) the grant of the visa would allow the applicant a total period of
stay inAustralia of more than 4 months as a temporary resident;
the applicant is sponsored by an institution, college or school.
418.231 If the application is made in the migration zone and at the time of
application the applicant was the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short
Stay (Visitor), or Working Holiday (Temporary) visa:
  (a) the applicant is sponsored by an educational or research institution;
and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) it has not been possible to find a person in Australia who is
suitable for the position; or
    (ii) in the circumstances, the institution should not be required to
seek a suitable person in Australia.
418.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
418.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
418.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 418 visa.
418.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit .
418.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions that apply or applied to:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant ; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen .
418.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
418.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 418 visa.
418.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the member of the family unit who, having satisfied the primary criteria,
is the holder of a subclass 418 visa.
418.323 If sponsorship is not required for the member of the family unit
who having satisfied the primary criteria holds a subclass 418 visa, that
family unit member produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to
support the applicant during the period of stay applied for by the
applicant, taking into account the working rights of both that family unit
member and the applicant.
418.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
418.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
418.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
418.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
418.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
418.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
418.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
418.6 CONDITIONS
418.611 If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria, condition 8107.
418.612 Any one or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8203, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
418.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
418.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 419-VISITING ACADEMIC
419.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
419.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
419.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: No criteria to be satisfied at time of application outside
Australia.)
419.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency
(subclass 303), Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency,
Retirement, Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass
427 visa; or
  (b) is the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or
Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004, and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
419.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
419.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) if made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a
subclass 419 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 419.222 to 419.228.
419.222 (1) The applicant is an academic who is invited to visit an
Australian tertiary institution or research institution for the purpose of
observing, or participating in, research at the institution.
  (2) The applicant or the institution that invited the applicant provides
a copy of the invitation.
419.223 If the applicant seeks to enter Australia under an agreement
between Australia and another country:
  (a) the Minister is satisfied that the application meets the requirements
of the agreement; and
  (b) the applicant has produced evidence that the stay of the applicant in
Australia under the agreement has been agreed to by the competent
authorities in Australia and the other country.
419.224 The applicant will not be receiving a salary, scholarship or
allowance (other than an allowance towards living expenses in Australia and
travel costs) from the institution.
419.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
419.226 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
419.227 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
419.228 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa, (if any)
held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
419.229 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was at the time of application, the holder of a subclass 419 visa, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 419 visa.
419.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
419.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
419.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 419 visa.
419.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that person is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia, and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
the family unit of that person .
419.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful non-citizen
was subject.
419.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
419.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 419 visa.
419.322 The member of the family unit who meets the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that family unit member and the
applicant.
419.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
419.324 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, he or she satisfies special return criteria
5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
419.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
419.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
419.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
419.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
419.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
419.6 CONDITIONS
419.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, conditions 8103 and
8107.
419.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
419.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
419.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 420-ENTERTAINMENT
420.1 INTERPRETATION
420.111 In this Part:
  "Arts Minister" means the Minister for Communications and the Arts.
420.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
420.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: No criteria to be satisfied at time of application outside
Australia.)
420.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency
(subclass 303), Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency,
Retirement, Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary), or subclass
427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or Border
(Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
420.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
420.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) is made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a
subclass 420 visa,
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 420.222 to 422.230.
420.222 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3),
(4), (5) or (6).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant seeks to enter Australia as an entertainer under a
performing contract for one or more specific engagements (other than
non-commercial engagements of a cultural or educational nature) in
Australia to take part in a film or television production that is
subsidised in whole or in part by a government in Australia; and
  (b) entry is sought to perform:
    (i) in a leading, major supporting or cameo role; or
    (ii) to satisfy ethnic or other special requirements; and
  (c) the application is supported by a certificate given by the Arts
Minister, or a person authorised by the Arts Minister, confirming that
relevant Australian content criteria have been met.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant seeks to enter Australia as an entertainer under a
performing contract for one or more specific engagements (other than
non-commercial engagements of a cultural or educational nature) in
Australia to take part in a film or television production that is not
subsidised in whole or in part by a government in Australia; and
  (b) entry is sought:
    (i) to perform in a leading, major supporting or cameo role; or
    (ii) to satisfy ethnic or other special requirements; and
  (c) the application is supported by a certificate given by the Arts
Minister, or a person authorised by the Arts Minister, confirming that:
    (i) citizens or residents of Australia have been afforded a reasonable
opportunity to participate in all levels of production; and
    (ii) the foreign investment, or the private investment guaranteed
against the foreign returns by a distributor, in the production, is greater
than the amount to be expended on entertainers sponsored for entry.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant seeks to enter Australia:
  (a) as an entertainer under a performing contract that is not related to
film or television production for one or more specific engagements in
Australia (other than non-commercial engagements of a cultural or
educational nature); or
  (b) to support an entertainer or group of entertainers (whether by
assisting performance or by personal services) in relation to a performing
contract for one or more specific engagements in Australia; or
  (c) to direct, produce or take some other part (otherwise than as a
performer) in a theatre, film, television or radio production, or a concert
or recording to be performed or shown in Australia, being a production,
concert or recording that involves the employment of at least one resident
of Australia; or
  (d) as a model or mannequin under contract for advertising or promotional
purposes.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant seeks to enter Australia to perform in one or more specific
engagements of a cultural nature for non-commercial purposes.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant seeks to enter Australia under an agreement between
Australia and another country; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the application meets the requirements
of the agreement; and
  (c) the applicant has produced evidence that the applicant's stay in
Australia under the agreement has been agreed to by the competent
authorities in Australia and in that other country.
420.223 (1) Subject to subclauses (2) and (3), the applicant is sponsored
by a person or body in Australia, being a person who, or body which:
  (a) satisfies the Minister that the person or body has good professional
and financial standing; and
  (b) has not defaulted on any previous sponsorship into which the person
or body has entered; and
  (c) holds any necessary licences in respect of the work to which the
application relates; and
  (d) has consulted with relevant Australian unions in relation to the
employment or engagement of the applicant in Australia.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant who seeks to enter
Australia under an agreement mentioned in subclause 420.222 (6).
  (3) Paragraphs (1) (a) and (d) do not apply in relation to the
sponsorship of an applicant who seeks to enter Australia to perform in one
or more specific engagements of a cultural nature for non-commercial
purposes.
420.224 If sponsorship is required, sponsorship of the applicant has been
approved by the Minister and the sponsorship fee prescribed in regulation
7.27 has been paid.
420.225 Unless the applicant seeks to enter Australia to perform purely for
non-commercial purposes, the applicant is to be employed or engaged in
Australia in accordance with the standards for wages and working conditions
provided for under relevant Australian legislation and awards.
420.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
420.227 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
420.228 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
420.229 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
420.230 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was at the time of application the holder of a subclass 420 visa the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 420 visa.
420.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
420.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
420.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 420 visa.
420.312 If the aplication is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that person is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
the family unit of that person .
420.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant immediately before becoming an
unlawful non-citizen was subject.
420.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
420.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 420 visa.
420.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria.
420.323 If sponsorship is not required for the member of the family unit
who satisfies the primary criteria, that person produces to the Minister
evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the period of
stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the working rights
of both that family unit member and the applicant.
420.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
420.325 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, he or she satisfies special return criteria
5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
420.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
420.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
420.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
420.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
420.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
420.6 CONDITIONS
420.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, conditions 8107 and
8109.
420.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
420.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
420.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 421-SPORT
421.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.
421.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
421.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
421.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency
(subclass 303), Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency,
Retirement, Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass
427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or Border
(Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (Temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004, and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
421.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
421.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
421 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 421.222 to 421.229.
421.222 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3),
(4), (5), (6) or (7).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is entered individually or as a member of a team to
compete in a sporting event, or sporting events, in Australia, and is not
so entered as a Taiwanese national claiming to represent Taiwan, China or
the Republic of China; and
  (b) the applicant satisfies the Minister:
    (i) that the applicant has sufficient money for the support of the
applicant and of any accompanying member of the applicant's family, and of
any assistant for whom the applicant is responsible, in Australia; and
    (ii) that, on arrival in Australia, the applicant and any accompanying
family member or assistant of that kind will possess travel tickets to a
destination in a foreign country.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) has been, or is to be, appointed or employed to assist a participant
or team referred to in paragraph (2) (a); and
  (b) satisfies the Minister:
    (i) that the individual participant or team with whom the applicant is
associated will provide complete financial support for the applicant and
any accompanying member of the applicant's family in Australia; and
    (ii) that, on arrival in Australia, the applicant and any accompanying
family member will possess travel tickets to a destination in a foreign
country.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant seeks to enter Australia under an arrangement with an
organisation in Australia to:
    (i) be a player, coach or instructor in relation to an Australian team
or organisation; or
    (ii) participate in a training program; and
  (b) the applicant is sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident, an eligible New Zealand citizen or an organisation in
Australia; and
  (c) the applicant establishes:
    (i) if there is a relevant labour agreement between the Minister and an
Australian sporting organisation-that the sponsorship is in accordance with
the agreement; and
    (ii) that the sponsor has good financial and professional status in
Australia; and
    (iii) that the applicant has an established reputation in the field of
sport; and
    (iv) that the applicant and the sponsor have entered into a formal
arrangement relating to the applicant's prospective activities in
Australia; and
  (d) approval of the application would not result in the number of
subclass 421 visas granted in a financial year on the basis of the
satisfaction of the requirements of this subclause exceeding the maximum
number of such visas specified, by Gazette Notice, for the purposes of this
paragraph in respect of that financial year.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant seeks to enter Australia under a business arrangement
with an organisation in Australia to be a sports instructor, and that
arrangement is approved in writing by the Minister; and
  (b) the applicant is sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident, an eligible New Zealand citizen or an organisation in
Australia; and
  (c) the applicant establishes that:
    (i) labour market requirements have been met; and
    (ii) the applicant's qualifications and experience are suitable for the
position to which the application relates; and
    (iii) the applicant is to be employed or engaged in Australia in
accordance with the standards for wages and working conditions provided for
under relevant Australian legislation and awards; and
    (iv) the employer has a satisfactory training record; and
  (d) the applicant satisfies the Minister that undertaking the arrangement
will benefit Australia.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant seeks to enter Australia to act as a judge or
adjudicator at shows or competitions in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant:
    (i) produces a written invitation or request to act as a judge or
adjudicator as stated in the application; and
    (ii) provides an itinerary listing the engagements as a judge or
adjudicator to be undertaken by the applicant; and
    (iii) if intending to stay in Australia for more than 4 months-is
sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident, an
eligible New Zealand citizen or an organisation operating in Australia.
  (7) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to enter Australia temporarily under an agreement between
Australia and another country, and the Minister is satisfied that the
application meets the requirements of the agreement; and
  (b) has produced evidence that the applicant's stay in Australia under
the agreement has been agreed to by the competent authorities in Australia
and in that other country.
421.223 If:
  (a) the applicant is a person to whom subclause 421.222 (2) or (3)
applies; and
  (b) the intended period of the applicant's stay in Australia does not
exceed 4 months;
the applicant:
  (c) provides a letter of invitation from an organisation in Australia in
relation to the participation in an event or events in Australia of the
applicant or a person or team with whom the applicant is associated, or
satisfactory evidence that an entry for an event in Australia has been
accepted; or
  (d) is an individual competitor, or is assisting an individual competitor
or a team, known internationally and having a record of participation in
international events.
421.224 If:
  (a) the applicant is a person to whom subclause 421.222 (2) or (3)
applies; and
  (b) the intended period of the applicant's stay exceeds 4 months;
the applicant:
  (c) is sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident, an eligible New Zealand citizen or an organisation in Australia;
or
  (d) is an individual competitor, or is associated with an individual
competitor or a team, known internationally and having a record of
participation in international events.
421.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
421.226 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
421.227 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
421.228 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa, (if any)
held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
421.229 If the application is made in the migration zone and the
application is in respect of a proposed stay in Australia of more than 4
months, the applicant:
  (a) is sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident, an eligible New Zealand citizen or an organisation operating in
Australia; or
  (b) is an individual competitor, or is associated with an individual
competitor or a team, known internationally and having a record of
participation in international events.
421.230 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was at the time of application the holder of a subclass 421 visa, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 421 visa.
421.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
421.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
421.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 421 visa.
421.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that person is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia, and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
the family unit of that person .
421.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which;
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
421.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
421.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 421 visa.
421.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria.
421.323 If sponsorship is not required for the person who satisfies the
primary criteria, that person produces to the Minister evidence of adequate
means to support the applicant during the period of stay applied for by the
applicant, taking into account the working rights of both that person and
the applicant.
421.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
421.325 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
421.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
421.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
421.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
421.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
421.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
421.6 CONDITIONS
421.611 If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria, condition 8107.
421.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
421.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
421.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 422-MEDICAL PRACTITIONER
422.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
422.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
422.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
422.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is :
  (a) the holder of a Business (Temporary), Educational, Cultural/Social
(Temporary), Expatriate (Temporary), Family Relationship (Temporary),
Interdependency (Temporary), Retirement (Temporary), Supported Dependant
(Temporary), Working Holiday (Temporary), subclass 300, or subclass 427
visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay
(Visitor) or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
422.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
422.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
422 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 422.222 to 422.227.
422.222 An applicant satisfies the requirements of this clause if:
  (a) the applicant's qualifications are recognised by the Medical Board of
a State or Territory as entitling the applicant to practise as a medical
practitioner in that State or Territory for the purposes of the position to
which the application relates; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) labour market requirements have been met; and
    (ii) the position to which the application relates is a full-time
position; and
    (iii) the applicant is to be adequately remunerated in the position,
having regard to Australian conditions and levels of remuneration; and
    (iv) the employment of the applicant in the position would benefit
Australia; and
  (c) the applicant is sponsored by:
    (i) a person who is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent
resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; or
    (ii) a body operating in Australia;
  being the prospective employer of the applicant; and
  (d) the sponsorship of the applicant under paragraph 422.222 (2) (c) has
been approved by the Minister and the sponsorship fee specified in
regulation 7.27 has been paid.
422.223 If the applicant seeks to enter Australia in accordance with a
labour agreement, the applicant establishes that:
  (a) the requirements of the labour agreement have been met; and
  (b) the applicant's skills and experience are suitable for the position
to which the application relates.
422.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
422.225 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
422.226 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
422.227 (1) If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
meets the requirements of subclauses (2), (3) and (4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she
has complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any)
held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if, at the time
of application, the applicant was the holder of a Student (Temporary) visa
and:
  (a) the applicant has successfully completed a course in Australia at
Associate Diploma level or above; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) it has not been possible to find a person who is suitable for the
position in which the applicant's intended employer proposes to employ the
applicant; or
    (ii) in the circumstances, the intended employer should not be required
to seek a suitable employee in Australia; and
  (c) the applicant is sponsored by an intended employer that is able to
establish that a person with those skills is not reasonably available in
Australia; and
  (d) if the applicant is a private subsidised student:
    (i) the sponsor establishes a strong case on economic grounds for the
grant of the visa; and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that it would not be detrimental to
Australia's policies in respect of overseas students to grant the visa; and
  (e) if the applicant is a student under a scholarship scheme or training
program approved by AIDAB, the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the
grant of the visa.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if, at the time
of application, the applicant was the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), a
Short Stay (Visitor) or Working Holiday (Temporary) visa and:
  (a) the applicant is sponsored by the applicant's intended employer; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) it has not been possible to find a person who is suitable for the
position in which the applicant's intended employer proposes to employ the
applicant;
    (ii) in the circumstances, the intended employer should not be required
to seek a suitable employee in Australia.
422.228 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 422 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the criteria for the grant of a
subclass 422 visa.
422.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria)
422.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
422.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 422 visa.
422.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit .
422.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful non-citizen
was subject.
422.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
422.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 422 visa.
422.322 The applicant is included in the sponsorship required in respect of
the person who satisfies the primary criteria.
422.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
422.326 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
422.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
422.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
422.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: CHARGES: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted)
422.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
422.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
422.6 CONDITIONS
422.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, condition 8107.
422.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
422.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
422.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 423-MEDIA AND FILM STAFF
423.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
423.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
423.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: if the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
423.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is :
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency
(subclass 303), Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency,
Retirement, Supported Dependant or Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass
427 visa; or
  (b) is the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or
Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004, and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
423.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
423.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the person does not hold a subclass
423 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 423.222 to 432.229.
423.222 (1) If the applicant seeks to enter Australia temporarily, the
applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3) or (4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant seeks to represent an overseas news organisation as a journalist,
correspondent or reporter and:
  (a) either:
    (i) if the organisation is not represented in Australia, the applicant
provides a statement from the organisation detailing the intended
activities of the organisation in Australia and the Minister is satisfied
that:
      (A) representation of the organisation in Australia would not be
contrary to the interests of Australia; and
      (B) the organisation would support the applicant financially in
Australia and arrange for the applicant's departure from Australia on or
before the day of expiry of the visa; or
    (ii) if the organisation is represented in Australia, the Minister is
satisfied that:
      (A) there is no suitable person in Australia who is capable of doing,
and available to do, the work envisaged for the applicant; and
      (B) that the work would not be contrary to the interests of
Australia; and
  (b) if the intended period of stay in Australia is more than 4 months,
the applicant is sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident, an eligible New Zealand citizen, or an organisation
operating in Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant seeks to make a documentary program or a commercial that is
exclusively for overseas use, and the Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) there is no suitable person in Australia who is capable of doing, and
available to do, the work envisaged for the applicant; and
  (b) that work would not be contrary to the interests of Australia; and
  (c) if the intended period of stay in Australia is more than 4 months,
the applicant is sponsored by an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident or an organisation operating in Australia.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to enter Australia temporarily under an agreement between
Australia and another country; and
  (b) has produced evidence that the applicant's stay in Australia under
the agreement has been agreed to by the competent authorities in Australia
and in that other country; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that the application meets the requirements
of the agreement.
423.223 If sponsorship is required under 423.222 (2) (b) or (3) (c):
  (a) a sponsorship of the applicant has been approved by the Minister; and
  (b) the sponsorship fee prescribed in regulation 7.27 has been paid.
423.224 The applicant is to be employed or engaged in Australia in
accordance with the standards for wages and working conditions provided for
under relevant Australian legislation and awards.
423.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
423.226 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
423.227 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
423.228 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
423.229 If the application is made in the migration zone and:
  (a) the applicant was, at the time of application, the holder of:
    (i) a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency (subclass 303),
Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported
Dependant or Border (Temporary) visa; or
    (ii) the holder of a Confirmatory (Temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in subparagraph (i) ; and
  (b) the grant of the visa would allow the applicant a total period of
stay in Australia of more than 4 months as a temporary resident;
the applicant is sponsored by an intended employer.
423.230 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 423 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 423 visa.
423.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be met by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
423.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
423.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 423 visa.
423.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that person is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
the family unit of that person .
423.313 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
423.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
423.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 423 visa.
423.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the person who satisfies the primary criteria.
423.323 If sponsorship is not required for the member of the family unit
who satisfies the primary criteria, that person produces to the Minister
evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the period of
stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the working rights
of both that family unit member and the applicant.
423.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
423.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, satisfies special return criteria 5001,
5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
423.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
423.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
423.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
423.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
423.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
423.6 CONDITIONS
423.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, condition 8107.
423.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
423.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
423.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 424-PUBLIC LECTURER
424.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
424.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
424.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
424.211 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Expatriate,
Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant,
Working Holiday (Temporary) subclass 300 or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay
(Visitor), Special Tourist (Visitor) or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 6 criteria 6005 and 6006; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 6 criteria 6004, 6005 and 6006.
424.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
424.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
424 visa;
the applicant satisfies clauses 424.222 to 424.230.
424.222 The applicant:
  (a) seeks to enter Australia to deliver 1 or more public lectures in
Australia; and
  (b) provides details of the times when, and the places where, the
applicant intends to lecture.
424.223 If the applicant seeks to enter Australia under an agreement
between Australia and another country:
  (a) the Minister is satisfied that the application meets the requirements
of the agreement; and
  (b) the applicant has produced evidence that the applicant's stay in
Australia under the agreement has been agreed to by the competent
authorities in Australia and in that other country.
424.224 If the applicant intends to lecture at the invitation of, or on
behalf of, a person or organisation in Australia:
  (a) if the applicant intends to stay in Australia for not more than 4
months - the person or organisation invites the applicant in writing and
the applicant produces the invitation to the Minister; or
  (b) if the applicant intends to stay in Australia for more than 4 months
and the applicant is not a person to whom clause 424.223 applies - the
applicant is sponsored by the person or organisation.
424.225 If sponsorship is required under clause 424.224:
  (a) a sponsorship of the applicant has been approved by the Minister; and
  (b) the sponsorship fee prescribed in regulation 7.27 has been paid.
424.226 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
424.227 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
424.228 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special
re-entry criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5009 and 5010.
424.229 If:
  (a) the applicant was, at the time of application, the holder of:
    (i) a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency (subclass 303),
Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported
Dependant Class visa, subclass 427, or Border (Temporary) Class 773 visa;
or
    (ii) the holder of a Confirmatory (Temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in subparagraph (i); and
  (b) the grant of the visa would allow the applicant a total period of
stay in Australia of more than 4 months as a temporary resident;
the applicant is sponsored by the person who, or organisation that, invited
the applicant to lecture.
424.230 The applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to
which the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was,
subject.
424.231 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 424 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the criteria for the grant of a
subclass 424 visa.
424.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be met by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
424.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
424.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 424 visa.
424.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit .
424.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
424.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
424.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 424 visa.
424.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the person who satisfies the primary criteria for the grant of a subclass
424 visa.
424.323 If sponsorship is not required for the member of the family unit
who satisfies the primary criteria, that family unit member produces to the
Minister evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the
period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the
working rights of both that family unit member and the applicant.
424.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
424.326 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special
re-entry criteria 5001, 5003, 5005, 5007, 5009 and 5010.
424.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
424.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
424.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
424.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
424.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
424.6 CONDITIONS
424.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, condition 9216.
424.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 9109, 9112, 9205, 9206, 9212, 9215,
9222, 9225, 9226 and 9228 may be imposed.
424.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
424.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 425-FAMILY RELATIONSHIP
425.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
425.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
425.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
425.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency
(subclass 303), Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency,
Retirement, Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass
427 visa; or
  (b) is the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or
Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
425.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
425.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
425 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 425.222 to 425.227.
425.222 The applicant has not turned 18 and is not married.
425.223 The Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) if granted entry to Australia, the applicant would live with a family
in Australia who are the applicant's relatives, or have close family
connections with the applicant's family; and
  (b) the family in Australia is able to provide the applicant with
accommodation and financial support for the period of the applicant's stay
in Australia; and
  (c) at least 1 member of the family in Australia is an Australian
citizen, an Australian permanent resident, or an eligible New Zealand
citizen, and is living with that family; and
  (d) the main purpose of the stay would not be to improve the applicant's
proficiency in English or to undertake formal studies; and
  (e) the applicant does not intend to stay longer than 12 months in
Australia.
425.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
425.225 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
425.226 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
425.227 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
425.228 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 425 visa at the time of application the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the criteria for the grant of a
subclass 425 visa.
425.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be met by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
425.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
425.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 425 visa.
425.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that person is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit.
425.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
425.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
425.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 425 visa.
425.322 The member of the family unit who meets the primary criteria for
grant of the subclass 425 visa produces to the Minister evidence of
adequate means to support the applicant during the period of stay applied
for by the applicant, taking into account the working rights of both that
family unit member and the applicant.
425.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
425.324 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
425.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
425.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
425.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
425.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
425.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
425.6 CONDITIONS
425.611 Condition 8101.
425.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
425.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
425.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 426-DOMESTIC WORKER (TEMPORARY)-DIPLOMATIC OR CONSULAR
426.1 INTERPRETATION
426.111 In this Part:
  "current employer", in relation to the applicant, means the person whose
household is the household in relation to employment in which the subclass
426 visa was granted to the applicant.
426.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
426.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
426.211 If the application is made in the migration zone:
  (a) the applicant is the holder, having met the primary criteria, of a
subclass 426 visa; or
  (b) the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa; and
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was a subclass 426
visa; and
    (ii) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003 and 3004.
426.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
426.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
426 visa;
the applicant satisfies clauses 426.222 to 426.229.
426.222 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant:
  (a) has turned 18; and
  (b) seeks to enter Australia to undertake full-time domestic duties in
the household of a person who:
    (i) is a diplomatic or consular representative in Australia of another
country; and
    (ii) is not a permanent resident of Australia; and
    (iii) has entered into an employment agreement with the applicant in
relation to those duties; and
  (c) is to be employed or engaged in Australia in accordance with the
standards for wages and working conditions provided for under relevant
Australian legislation and awards.
426.223 The application has the support in writing of the Foreign Minister.
426.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
426.225 The applicant has complied substantially with any conditions to
which the visa described in paragraph 426.211(a) is subject.
426.226 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
426.227 If the application is made in the migration zone, the Minister is
satisfied that:
  (a) the applicant is undertaking, and while remaining in Australia will
continue to undertake, full-time domestic duties in the household of the
applicant's current employer; or
  (b) the applicant seeks to remain in Australia to undertake full-time
domestic duties in the household of a person (other than the applicant's
current employer) who:
    (i) is a diplomatic or consular representative in Australia of the same
or another country; and
    (ii) has entered into an employment agreement with the applicant in
relation to those duties.
426.228 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
426.229 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 426 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 426 visa.
426.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
426.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
426.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 426 visa.
426.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit .
426.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
426.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
426.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 426 visa.
426.323 The member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that family unit member and the
applicant.
426.324 The application has the support in writing of the Foreign Minister.
426.325 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
426.326 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
426.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
426.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at time of grant.
426.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
426.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
426.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
426.6 CONDITIONS
426.611 Condition 8110 and, if the applicant satisfies the primary
criteria, condition 8107.
426.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
426.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
426.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 427-DOMESTIC WORKER (TEMPORARY)-EXECUTIVE
427.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
427.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
427.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
427.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is
either:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Emergency (subclass 303),
Educational, Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement,
Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or Border
(Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
427.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
427.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made inside the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a
subclass 427 visa,
the applicant satisfies criteria 427.222 to 427.232.
427.222 The applicant seeks to enter Australia to undertake full-time
domestic duties in the household of an executive who:
  (a) is in charge of an Australian office of an overseas organisation; and
  (b) is the holder of a subclass 412 visa or a subclass 413 visa.
427.223 If the executive is sponsored by an organisation in Australia, the
applicant gives satisfactory evidence to the Minister that the applicant is
sponsored by that organisation.
427.224 If the executive is not sponsored by an organisation in Australia,
the applicant lodges with the application:
  (a) an employment agreement, acceptable to the Minister, between the
applicant and the executive for the performance of full-time domestic
duties in the household of the executive; and
  (b) an undertaking by the executive to be responsible for:
    (i) all financial liabilities of the applicant arising out of the
applicant's stay in Australia; and
    (ii) compliance by the applicant with:
      (A) all legislation and awards (including State or Territory
legislation and awards) relating to the applicant's proposed employment;
and
      (B) the departure of the applicant from Australia not later than the
departure of the executive from Australia.
427.225 The executive:
  (a) establishes:
    (i) that the executive has been unable to find a suitable person in
Australia for the relevant position; or
    (ii) that there are compelling reasons for employing the applicant; and
  (b) produces a written undertaking:
    (i) to meet all the applicant's travel expenses to Australia to take up
the position and to a destination outside Australia on the expiry of the
contract of employment and not later than the time of expiry of the visa;
and
    (ii) not to seek to recover any expenditure by the executive in
relation to the applicant's travel to or from Australia or financial
support of the applicant in Australia.
427.226 The applicant has turned 18 and has experience as a domestic
worker.
427.227 The applicant is to be employed or engaged in Australia in
accordance with the standards for wages and working conditions provided for
under relevant Australian legislation and awards.
427.228 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
427.229 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
427.230 If the application is made outside Australia, and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
427.231 Either:
  (a) the sponsorship of the applicant under clause 427.223 (2) has been
approved by the Minister; or
  (b) the documents mentioned in clause 427.223 (3) have been lodged with
the Minister;
as the case requires, and the sponsorship fee specified in regulation 7.27
has been paid.
427.232 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
427.233 If the application is made in the migration zone, and the applicant
was at the time of application the holder of a subclass 427 visa, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 427 visa.
427.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
427.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
427.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 427 visa.
427.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit .
427.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
427.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
427.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 427 visa.
427.322 The applicant is included in any sponsorship required in respect of
the person who satisfies the primary criteria.
427.323 If sponsorship is not required for the member of the family unit
who satisfies the primary criteria, that family unit member produces to the
Minister evidence of adequate means to support the applicant during the
period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking into account the
working rights of both that family unit member and the applicant.
427.324 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
427.325 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
427.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
427.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
427.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: CHARGES: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
427.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
427.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
427.6 CONDITIONS
427.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, conditions 8107 and
8111.
427.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106, 8516,
8522, 8503 and 8526 may be imposed.
427.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
427.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 428-RELIGIOUS WORKER
428.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
428.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
428.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
428.211 If the application is lodged in the migration zone, the applicant
is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Expatriate,
Family Relationship, Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant,
Working Holiday (Temporary), subclass 303 or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) is the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or
Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa that was granted on the
grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
428.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
428.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
428 visa;
the applicant meets the requirements of clauses 428.222 to 428.228.
428.222 The applicant is sponsored by a religious organisation in Australia
to undertake work in Australia that directly serves the religious
objectives of the organisation, and the sponsorship has been approved by
the Minister and the sponsorship fee prescribed in regulation 7.27 has been
paid.
428.223 The applicant provides a written undertaking by the religious
organisation:
  (a) to meet all the applicant's travel expenses to a place in a foreign
country on:
    (i) the expiry of the sponsorship; or
    (ii) the expiry of the visa;
  whichever is the earlier; and
  (b) not to seek to recover from the applicant any expenditure by the
religious organisation in relation to the applicant's travel to or from
Australia, or in relation to financial support of the applicant in
Australia.
428.224 If the application relates to a proposed stay in Australia for more
than 6 months, the applicant is able to:
  (a) ask and answer simple questions in English; and
  (b) write simple statements in English about everyday matters; and
  (c) complete simple forms in English.
428.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
428.226 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
428.227 If the application is lodged outside Australia and the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
428.228 The applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to
which the visa, (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was,
subject.
428.229 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was the holder of a subclass 428 visa at the time of application, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 428 visa.
428.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
428.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
428.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 428 visa.
428.312 If the application is lodged outside Australia and the application
is made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that person is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
the family unit of that person.
428.313 If the application is lodged in the migration zone, the applicant
has complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
428.32 Criteria to be met at time of decision
428.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 428 visa.
428.322 The applicant is included in the sponsorship required in respect of
the person who meets the primary criteria.
428.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
428.324 If the application is lodged outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, satisfies special return criteria 5001,
5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
428.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
428.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant is
in the migration zone at the time of grant.
428.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant is
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
428.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
428.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
428.6 CONDITIONS
428.611 If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria, conditions 8303,
8107 and 8521.
428.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
428.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
428.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 430-SUPPORTED DEPENDENT
430.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
430.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
430.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: if the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
430.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency
(subclass 303), Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency,
Retirement, Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary), or subclass
427 visa, or
  (b) is the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or
Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
430.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
430.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
430 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 430.222 to 430.226.
430.222 The applicant is a dependant of a person who is an Australian
citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand
citizen and the application is supported in writing by that person.
430.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
430.224 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
430.225 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
430.226 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
430.227 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was at the time of application the holder of a subclass 430 visa, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 430 visa.
430.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
430.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
430.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 430 visa.
430.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the person satisfying the primary criteria:
  (a) that person is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
the family unit of that person.
430.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
430.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
430.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 430 visa.
430.322 The member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that family unit member and the
applicant.
430.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
430.324 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special returnntry
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
430.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
430.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
430.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
430.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
430.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
430.6 CONDITIONS
430.611 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
430.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
430.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 432-EXPATRIATE (TEMPORARY)
432.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
432.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
432.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: If the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
432.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant
either:
  (a) is the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Educational, Emergency
(subclass 303), Expatriate, Family Relationship, Interdependency,
Retirement, Supported Dependant, Working Holiday (Temporary) or subclass
427 visa; or
  (b) is the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay (Visitor) or
Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
432.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
432.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
432 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in subclauses 432.222 to 432.230.
432.222 The applicant is a spouse or dependant of an employee of a
reputable international company.
432.223 The employee has been assigned by the company to work in a remote
location in South East Asia, the South Pacific or Papua New Guinea.
432.224 The applicant wishes to reside in Australia for part or all of the
term of the assignment.
432.225 The company is dependent on Australia for supplies or has other
business associations with Australia.
432.226 The company gives a written undertaking:
  (a) to be responsible for the departure from Australia to a destination
outside Australia of the applicant, and of members of the family unit of
that person, not later than the time of expiry of the visa; and
  (b) to bear all costs of travel to that destination.
432.227 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
432.228 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
432.229 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
432.230 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
432.231 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was at the time of application the holder of a subclass 432 visa, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 432 visa.
432.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
432.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
432.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 432 visa.
432.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the member of the family unit satisfying the
primary criteria:
  (a) that member of the family unit is, or is expected soon to be, in
Australia; and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit .
432.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
432.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
432.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 432 visa.
432.322 The member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that family unit member and the
applicant.
432.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
432.324 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
432.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
432.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
432.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
432.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
432.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
432.6 CONDITIONS
432.611 Condition 8101.
432.612 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8222 and 8526 may be imposed.
432.7 EVIDENCE OF GRANT
432.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 435-SRI LANKAN (TEMPORARY)
435.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
435.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
435.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
435.211 If section 48 of the Act applies to the applicant, he or she has
not been refused a visa, or had a visa cancelled, under section 501 of the
Act.
435.212 The applicant is a citizen, and normally a resident, of Sri Lanka.
435.213 At any time on or after 31 December 1991 the applicant has been the
holder of a substantive visa.
435.214 The applicant is not the holder of a visa (other than a subclass
435 visa) having effect on or after 30 November 1994.
435.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
435.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 435.214.
435.222 If the grant of the visa would result in the applicant being
authorised to stay in Australia for a period totalling more than 12 months:
  (a) the applicant has undergone a medical examination carried out by a
Commonwealth Medical Officer; and
  (b) the applicant:
    (i) has undergone a chest X-ray examination conducted by a medical
practitioner who is qualified as a radiologist in Australia; or
    (ii) is below the age of 16 years and is not a person in respect of
whom a Commonwealth Medical Officer has requested such an examination.
435.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA:Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
435.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
435.411 The applicant must be in the migration zone when the visa is
granted.
435.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
435.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until 30 November 1994.
435.6 CONDITIONS
435.611 Condition 8303 may be imposed.
435.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
435.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 442-OCCUPATIONAL TRAINEE
442.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
442.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass, need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
442.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
(NOTE: if the application is made outside Australia, there are no criteria
to be satisfied at time of application.)
442.211 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant is:
  (a) the holder of a Business, Cultural/Social, Emergency (subclass 303),
Educational (Temporary), Occupational Trainee, Family Relationship,
Interdependency, Retirement, Supported Dependant Working Holiday
(Temporary) or subclass 427 visa; or
  (b) the holder of a Student (Temporary), Long Stay (Visitor), Short Stay
(Visitor) or Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) the holder of a Confirmatory (temporary) visa which was granted on
the grounds that the applicant satisfied the criteria for one of the visas
specified in paragraph (a) or (b); or
  (d) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (a) or (c); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3003, 3004 and 3005; or
  (e) not the holder of a substantive visa and:
    (i) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind
specified in paragraph (b); and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3002, 3003, 3004 and 3005.
442.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
442.221 If the application is:
  (a) made outside Australia; or
  (b) made in the migration zone and the applicant does not hold a subclass
442 visa;
the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 442.222 to 442.229.
442.222 (1) Except in the case of an application made in relation to
occupational training to be provided by the Commonwealth, a nomination in
respect of the occupational training has been lodged and has been approved
by the Minister.
  (2) The reference in subclause (1) to occupational training to be
provided by the Commonwealth includes occupational training to be provided
by:
  (a) a body corporate incorporated for a public purpose by an Act or
regulations made under an Act; or
  (b) an authority or body, not being a body corporate, established for a
public purpose by, or under, an Act or regulations made under an Act.
442.223 The Minister is satisfied:
  (a) that the occupational training that is proposed will give the
applicant additional or enhanced skills that the applicant will be able to
utilise in the applicant's employment after leaving Australia; and
  (b) that occupational opportunities available to Australian citizens or
permanent residents of Australia will not be adversely affected if the visa
is granted.
442.224 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant is a genuine applicant
for entry to Australia as an occupational trainee.
442.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4010.
442.226 The Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted.
442.227 If the application is made outside Australia and the applicant has
previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
442.228 If the application is made in the migration zone the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held,
or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
442.229 If the application is made in the migration zone and if the
applicant is the holder of a Student (Temporary) visa, the applicant was
granted that visa because:
  (a) the applicant was a trainee; or
  (b) before 1 September 1994 was the holder of:
    (i) a trainee (non-formal course) (code number 554) visa; or
    (ii) a trainee (English language) (code number 555) visa granted as a
prerequisite to occupational training; or
    (iii) a student (category B) (code number 561) visa, granted before 1
April 1991 as a prerequisite to occupational training.
442.230 If the application is made in the migration zone and the applicant
was at the time of application, the holder of a subclass 442 visa, the
applicant satisfies the Minister that there is no reason to believe that
the applicant does not continue to satisfy the primary criteria for the
grant of a subclass 442 visa.
442.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
442.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
442.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who has
applied for a subclass 442 visa.
442.312 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the family unit member satisfying the primary
criteria:
  (a) that family unit member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia;
and
  (b) the applicant intends to stay temporarily in Australia as a member of
that family unit.
442.313 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant has
complied substantially with the conditions to which:
  (a) any visa held by the applicant is subject; or
  (b) any visa held by the applicant before becoming an unlawful
non-citizen was subject.
442.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
442.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 442 visa.
442.322 The member of the family unit who satisfies the primary criteria
produces to the Minister evidence of adequate means to support the
applicant during the period of stay applied for by the applicant, taking
into account the working rights of both that family unit member and the
applicant.
442.323 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases, satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
442.324 If the application is made outside Australia and if the applicant
has previously been in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return
criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
442.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
442.411 If the application is made in the migration zone, the applicant
must be in the migration zone at the time of grant.
442.412 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
442.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
442.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
442.6 CONDITIONS
442.611 If the applicant meets the primary criteria, conditions 8102 and
8202.
442.612 If the applicant meets the secondary criteria, condition 8101.
442.613 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
442.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
442.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 443-CITIZENS OF FORMER YUGOSLAVIA
443.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
443.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
443.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
443.211 If section 48 of the Act applies to the applicant, he or she has
not been refused a visa, or had a visa cancelled under section 501 of the
Act.
443.212 The applicant is a person who:
  (a) was, on 19 June 1991, a citizen of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia; and
  (b) is usually resident in a place that, on 19 June 1991, formed part of
the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia;
or, if born on or after 20 June 1991, is a dependent child of such a
person.
443.213 At any time on or after 31 December 1991, the applicant has been
the holder of a substantive visa.
443.214 The applicant is not the holder of a visa (other than a subclass
443 visa) having effect on or after 30 November 1994.
443.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
443.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion specified in
clause 443.214.
443.222 If the grant of the visa would result in the applicant being
authorised to stay in Australia for a period totalling more than 12 months:
  (a) the applicant has undergone a medical examination carried out by a
Commonwealth medical officer; and
  (b) the applicant:
    (i) has undergone a chest X-ray examination conducted by a medical
practitioner who is qualified as a radiologist in Australia; or
    (ii) is below the age of 16 years and is not a person in respect of
whom a Commonwealth Medical Officer has requested such an examination.
443.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
443.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
443.411 The applicant must be in the migration zone when the visa is
granted.
443.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
443.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until 30 November 1994.
443.6 CONDITIONS
443.611 Condition 8303 may be imposed.
443.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
443.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 444-SPECIAL CATEGORY
444.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
444.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
444.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
444.211 The applicant is a non-citizen who meets the requirements of
paragraph 32 (2) (a) of the Act.
(NOTE: The requirements are: that the applicant is a New Zealand citizen;
and holds, and has shown an officer, a New Zealand passport that is in
force; and  that the applicant is neither a behaviour concern
non-citizen nor a health concern non-citizen.
The terms "behaviour concern non-citizen" and "health concern
non-citizen" are defined in subsection 5 (1) of the Act. Prescribed
diseases in respect of a health concern non-citizen are set out in
regulation 5.16, and the circumstances in relation to a behaviour concern
non-citizen who has been excluded from a country other than Australia are
set out in regulation 5.15.)
444.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
444.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion set out in clause
444.211.
444.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
444.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
444.411 At the time of grant, the applicant must:
  (a) be in Australia; or
  (b) intend to travel to Australia on a pre-cleared flight and be in
immigration clearance at a port outside Australia at which pre-clearance
procedures are carried out.
(NOTE: 1. For "pre-cleared flight" see the Act, s. 17.
 2. Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
444.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
444.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to remain in Australia while
the holder is a New Zealand citizen.
444.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
444.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
444.711 If the grant is made:
  (a) in immigration clearance-a port and date stamp placed in the passport
of the holder; or
  (b) in Australia after immigration clearance-a "special category visa
holder" stamp placed in the passport of the holder; or
  (c) at an airport outside Australia at which pre-clearance procedures are
carried out-a "pre-cleared" stamp placed in the passport of the holder.
SUBCLASS 445-DEPENDENT CHILD
445.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
445.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
445.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
445.211 The applicant :
  (a) is not in Australia; and
  (b) is a dependent child of a person who is the holder of an Extended
Eligibility (Temporary) Class visa; and
  (c) is sponsored by that person.
445.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
445.221 The applicant continues to be sponsored by the person referred to
in paragraph 445.211 (c).
445.222 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
445.223 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
445.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
445.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
445.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
445.5 WHEN A VISA IS IN EFFECT
445.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia within the visa period of the Extended Eligibility (Temporary)
visa held by the person on whom the applicant is dependent.
445.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
445.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
445.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 446-CONFIRMATORY (TEMPORARY)
446.1 INTERPRETATION
446.111 In this Part:
  "remaining criteria", in relation to an applicant who is the holder, on
the basis of having satisfied the primary criteria, of a subclass 303 visa,
means the criteria referred to in paragraph 303.212 (b) that he or she had
not satisfied at the time of grant of that visa.
446.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
446.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
446.211 (1) The applicant is the holder of a subclass 303 visa.
  (2) The applicant:
  (a) has satisfied the remaining criteria; or
  (b) is a member of the family unit of a person who has applied for a
Confirmatory (temporary) visa on the grounds of satisfying the remaining
criteria.
446.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
446.221 In the case of an applicant referred to in paragraph 446.211 (2)
        (b):
  (a) the other person referred to in that paragraph holds a Confirmatory
        (temporary) visa; and
  (b) the applicant has satisfied the secondary criteria for the grant of
the visa initially applied for by that other person.
446.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE. All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
446.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
446.411 An applicant must be in the migration zone when the visa is
granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable tax under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa is granted.)
446.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
446.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
446.6 CONDITIONS
446.611 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8525, 8502, 8301, 8303, 8106,
8107, 8516, 8503, 8522 and 8526 may be imposed.
446.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
446.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 560-STUDENT
560.1 INTERPRETATION
560.111 In this Part:
  "gazetted country" means a country specified by Gazette Notice for the
purpose of this Part;
560.112 (1) A reference in this Part to the holder of a visa of subclass
560 includes a reference to the holder of a visa or entry permit, as the
case requires, that:
  (a) was granted in accordance with the Migration (1989) Regulations or the
Migration (1993) Regulations and is of a predecessor class; or
  (b) was applied for, and granted in accordance with the law as in force,
before 19 December 1989 and is substantially the same, in nature and
effect, as a visa or entry permit of that class.
  (2) In subclause (1), "predecessor class" means a visa or entry permit of
any of the following classes or kinds:
  (a) granted under the Migration (1989) Regulations:
    (i) private subsidised student (code number 550);
    (ii) student (AIDAB) (code number 551);
    (iii) student (Equity and Merit Scholarship Scheme) (code number 552);
    (iv) student (formal course) (code number 553);
    (v) trainee (English language) (code number 555);
    (vi) trainee (non-formal course) (code number 554);
    (vii) student (restricted) (code number 556);
    (viii) student (category A) (code number 560);
    (ix) student (category B) (code number 561);
  (b) granted under the Migration (1993) Regulations:
    (i) Class 560 (Student (category A));
    (ii) Class 561 (Student (category B)).
560.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
560.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
560.211 (1) If the applicant is a citizen of Iran, the applicant does not
seek to enter Australia to undertake a full-time course of study (in this
clause called "the current course") of a kind set out in subclause (2)
unless he or she has previously entered Australia as the holder of a
subclass 562 visa and one or more of the circumstances set out in subclause
(3) applies.
  (2) The kinds of course referred to in subclause (1) are:
  (a) a course of study for a master's degree or a doctorate in Australia;
or
  (b) a graduate diploma or graduate certificate course or any other
bridging course required as a prerequisite course to a course of study or
research for a master's degree or a doctorate in Australia; or
  (c) an English language course or other prerequisite course for
undertaking a course mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) in Australia.
  (3) The circumstances referred to in subclause (1) are the following:
  (a) that the applicant entered Australia as the holder of a subclass 562
visa for the purpose of undertaking the current course;
  (b) if the current course is a course mentioned in paragraph (2) (a), that
the applicant entered Australia as the holder of a subclass 562 visa for
the purpose of undertaking a prerequisite course mentioned in paragraph (2)
        (b) or (c) undertaken in preparation for undertaking the current course;
  (c) if the current course is a course mentioned in paragraph (2) (b), that
the applicant entered Australia as the holder of a subclass 562 visa for
the purpose of undertaking a prerequisite course mentioned in paragraph (2)
        (c) undertaken in preparation for undertaking the current course.
560.212 (1) If the application is made in Australia, the applicant:
  (a) is the holder of:
    (i) a Business (Temporary) visa; or
    (ii) a Border (Temporary) visa; or
    (iii) a Cultural/Social (Temporary) visa; or
    (iv) a Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (as the spouse or dependent relative
of a diplomatic or consular representative of a country other than
Australia); or
    (v) an Educational (Temporary) visa; or
    (vi) an Emergency (Temporary Visa Applicant) visa; or
    (vii) an Expatriate (Temporary) visa; or
    (viii) a Family Relationship (Temporary) visa; or
    (ix) an Interdependency (Temporary) visa; or
    (x) a Special Purpose Visa; or
    (xi) a Supported Dependant (Temporary) visa; or
    (xii) a Retirement (Temporary) visa; or
    (xiii) a Working Holiday (Temporary) visa; or
    (xiv) a subclass 427 visa; or
    (xv) a Student (Temporary) visa; or
    (xvi) a Short Stay (Visitor) visa; or
    (xvii) a Long Stay (Visitor) visa; or
  (b) is not the holder of a substantive visa and meets the requirements of
subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was a Student
(Temporary) visa ; and
  (b) documents relevant to the establishment of the applicant's eligibility
for the grant of the substantive visa applied for were given to Education
or to an Australian educational institution before the expiry of the
substantive visa mentioned in paragraph (a); and
  (c) the application is made within 12 months of the expiry of that visa.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was:
    (i) a Business (Temporary) visa; or
    (ii) a Border (Temporary) visa; or
    (iii) a Cultural/Social (Temporary) visa; or
    (iv) a Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (as the spouse or dependent relative
of a diplomatic or consular representative of a country other than
Australia); or
    (v) an Educational (Temporary) visa; or
    (vi) an Emergency (Temporary Visa Applicant) visa; or
    (vii) an Expatriate (Temporary) visa; or
    (viii) a Family Relationship (Temporary) visa; or
    (ix) an Interdependency (Temporary) visa; or
    (x) a Special Purpose Visa; or
    (xi) a Supported Dependant (Temporary) visa; or
    (xii) a Retirement (Temporary) visa; or
    (xiii) a Working Holiday (Temporary) visa; or
    (xiv) a subclass 427 visa; or
    (xv) a Student (Temporary) visa; or
    (xvi) a Short Stay (Visitor) visa; or
    (xvii) a Long Stay (Visitor) visa; and
  (b) the applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001 and 3005.
560.213 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant has complied
substantially with the conditions to which the visa (if any) held, or last
held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
560.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
560.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clause 560.211.
560.222 The applicant:
  (a) produces to the Minister evidence of enrolment to undertake a full-time
course of study that:
    (i) is a registered course; or
    (ii) comprises a unit or units of a registered course but does not lead
to the grant of an award in Australia, or
  (b) produces to the Minister evidence of enrolment to undertake a full-time
course of study:
    (i) as an exchange student; or
    (ii) as a student under a scholarship scheme or training program
approved by AIDAB; or
    (iii) as a private subsidised student, with the approval of the
Education Minister, or
  (c) if the application is made in Australia, the applicant:
    (i) was, at the time of application, the holder of a subclass 560 or 562
visa; and
    (ii) satisfies the Minister that, in connection with a registered course
or with a matter arising from that course:
      (A) the relevant educational institution requires the applicant to
remain in Australia during the marking of a post-graduate thesis; or
      (B) the applicant is required to gain practical employment experience
after graduation to obtain registration in a profession in which
registration is a prerequisite for the practice of the profession in the
applicant's usual country of residence.
560.223 If the applicant is an assisted student, the applicant produces to
the Minister evidence that the Education Minister (in the case of a student
under the Subsidised Overseas Student Program), or AIDAB (in the case of a
student under a scholarship scheme or a training program that is approved
by AIDAB) supports the grant of the visa.
560.224 (1) Subject to subclause (4), the Minister is satisfied that the
applicant is a genuine applicant for entry and stay as a student, having
regard:
  (a) to the financial ability of the applicant to undertake the course
without contravening any condition of the visa relating to work ;
  (b) subject to subclauses (2) and (3), to the applicant's comprehension of
English for the purposes of the course;
  (c) to whether the applicant intends to comply with any conditions subject
to which the visa is granted; and
  (d) to any other relevant matter.
  (2) If the Minister has regard to the applicant's comprehension of
English, the Minister may require the applicant to undertake an English
language test that is conducted by an agency other than Immigration.
  (3) If the applicant is required to undertake a test and does not
undertake it, or does not pass it, the Minister is not to grant the visa.
  (4) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant if the applicant is:
  (a) a Burmese national; and
  (b) was granted a visa under clause 560.334A of Schedule 2 of the
Migration (1993) Regulations as in force on 29 June 1993.
560.225 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) if the applicant seeks to stay in Australia for 12 months or more,
satisfies public interest criterion 4010; and
  (c) if applying outside Australia and the applicant has previously been in
Australia, satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to
5009.
560.226 The applicant produces to the Minister evidence of adequate
arrangements in Australia for health insurance during the period of the
applicant's intended stay in Australia.
560.227 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant continues to
satisfy the criterion in clause 560.213.
560.228 (1) If the application is made in Australia, the applicant:
  (a) satisfies the primary criteria for the grant of a subclass 560 visa,
other than the criterion specified in clause 560.211; and
  (b) either:
    (i) if the applicant is the holder of a subclass 560 visa by reason of
having satisfied the secondary criteria for that visa or the primary
criteria for a subclass 563 visa, he or she was not, immediately before
becoming the holder of that visa as a student's dependant, the holder of:
      (A) a Business(Temporary) visa; or
      (B) a Border (Temporary) visa; or
      (C) a Cultural/Social (Temporary) visa; or
      (D) a Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (as the spouse or dependent relative
of a diplomatic or consular representative of a country other than
Australia); or
      (E) an Educational (Temporary) visa; or
      (F) an Expatriate (Temporary) visa; or
      (G) a Family Relationship (Temporary) visa; or
      (H) an Interdependency (Temporary) visa; or
      (J) a Special Purpose Visa; or
      (K) a Supported Dependant (Temporary) visa; or
      (L) a Retirement (Temporary) visa; or
      (M) a Working Holiday (Temporary) visa; or
      (N) a subclass 427 visa; or
      (P) a subclass 560 visa (by satisfying the primary criteria); or
      (R) a subclass 562 visa; or
      (S) a Short Stay (Visitor) visa; or
      (T) a Long Stay (Visitor) visa;
by reason of having satisfied the primary criteria for that visa; or
    (ii) if the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa, he or she
was not, immediately before becoming an unlawful non-citizen, the holder of
a subclass 560 or 563 visa in the circumstances set out in subparagraph
        (i).
  (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) (b), a person is a student's
dependant if the person is:
  (a) the holder, as a person who has satisfied secondary criteria, of a
subclass 560 (student) visa; or
  (b) the holder of a subclass 563 student visa.
560.229 If:
  (a) the application is made in Australia; and
  (b) the applicant is not:
    (i) a citizen of a gazetted country; or
    (ii) a person who is normally resident in, and has an unlimited right of
entry to, a country specified by Gazette Notice for the purposes of this
paragraph; or
    (iii) undertaking a course of study paid for wholly or in part by the
government of his or her home country or by an intergovernmental agency;
and
  (c) the applicant is the holder of a subclass 560 visa granted for a
course of study that is of less than 12 months duration; and
  (d) the applicant is:
    (i) enrolling in a further course of less than 12 months duration; or
    (ii) continuing a course of less than 12 months duration;
the total period of stay of the applicant in Australia for the purposes of
undertaking:
  (e) those courses of study; and
  (f) any other courses of study (being courses each of less than 12 months
duration);
does not exceed 2 years.
560.230 If:
  (a) the application is made in Australia; and
  (b) at the time of application, the applicant meets the requirements of
subclause 560.212 as the holder of:
    (i) a Business (Temporary) visa; or
    (ii) a Border (Temporary) visa; or
    (iii) a Cultural/Social (Temporary) visa; or
    (iv) a Educational (Temporary) visa; or
    (v) an Emergency (Temporary Visa Applicant) visa; or
    (vi) an Expatriate (Temporary) visa; or
    (vii) a Family Relationship (Temporary) visa; or
    (viii) an Interdependency (Temporary) visa; or
    (ix) a Special Purpose Visa; or
    (x) a Supported Dependant (Temporary) visa; or
    (xi) a Retirement (Temporary) visa; or
    (xii) a Working Holiday (Temporary) visa; or
    (xiii) a subclass 427 visa; or
    (xiv) a Short Stay (Visitor) visa; or
    (xv) a Long Stay (Visitor) visa;
the applicant establishes exceptional reasons for the grant of a subclass
560 visa.
560.231 If the application is made in Australia and at the time of
application the applicant was in Australia as the spouse or dependent
relative of a diplomatic or consular representative of a country other than
Australia:
  (a) that representative has completed, or is about to complete, an
official posting in Australia; and
  (b) the Foreign Minister recommends the grant of the visa.
560.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: Requirements to be satisfied by applicants who are members of the
family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
560.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
560.311 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant is a
member of the family unit of a person who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria in subdivision 560.21.
560.312 (1) If the application is made in Australia, the applicant:
  (a) is the holder of:
    (i) a Business (Temporary) visa; or
    (ii) a Border (Temporary) visa; or
    (iii) a Cultural/Social (Temporary visa); or
    (iv) a Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (as the spouse or dependent relative
of a diplomatic or consular representative of a country other than
Australia); or
    (v) a Educational (Temporary) visa; or
    (vi) an Emergency (Temporary Visa Applicant) visa; or
    (vii) an Expatriate (Temporary) visa; or
    (viii) a Family Relationship (Temporary) visa; or
    (ix) an Interdependency (Temporary) visa; or
    (x) a Special Purpose Visa; or
    (xi) a Supported Dependant (Temporary) visa; or
    (xii) a Retirement (Temporary) visa; or
    (xiii) a Working Holiday (Temporary) visa; or
    (xiv) a subclass 427 visa; or
    (xv) a Student (Temporary) visa; or
    (xvi) a Short Stay (Visitor) visa; or
    (xvii) a Long Stay (Visitor) visa; or
  (b) does not hold a substantive visa and meets the requirements of
subclause (2).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who meets the
requirements of subclause 560.212 (2) or (3); and
  (b) the applicant was a member of the family unit of that person upon the
expiry of that person's visa.
560.313 If the application is made in Australia, and the applicant holds a
visa at the time of application, the applicant has complied substantially
with any conditions to which that visa is subject.
560.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
560.321 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who,
having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a subclass 560
visa.
560.322 The applicant:
  (a) in all cases:
    (i) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
    (ii) if he or she is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007
to 5009; and
  (b) in the case of an applicant who seeks to stay in Australia for 12
months or more, satisfies public interest criterion 4010.
560.323 If the applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who is
under a scholarship scheme or training program approved by AIDAB, the
applicant produces to the Minister evidence that AIDAB supports the
application for the visa.
560.324 (1) Subject to subclause (2), the Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) the applicant genuinely seeks temporary entry as a member of the
family unit of a person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is a
holder of a subclass 560 visa; and
  (b) the member of the family unit who, having satisfied the primary
criteria, is a holder of a subclass 560 visa will have adequate means to
support himself or herself and the members of his or her family unit during
the period of the applicant's intended stay in Australia, having regard to
any rights they may have to work in Australia during that period; and
  (c) the applicant intends to comply with any conditions subject to which
the visa is granted.
  (2) Clause 560.324 does not apply to an applicant who is a member of the
family unit of a person to whom subclause 560.224 (4) refers.
560.325 The applicant produces to the Minister evidence of adequate
arrangements in Australia for health insurance during the period of the
applicant's intended stay in Australia.
560.326 If:
  (a) the applicant is a school-age dependant and member of the family unit
of a person (in this clause called "the principal person") who, having
satisfied the primary criteria, is a holder of a subclass 560 visa; and
  (b) the period of stay proposed in the application is more than three
months; and
  (c) the principal person:
    (i) applied for the visa referred to in clause 560.321 on or after 1
March 1992; and
    (ii) did not commence the course of study to which that visa relates
before 1 March 1992; and
    (iii) did not hold, before 1 March 1992, a student (category A) (code
number 560) or student (category B) (code number 561) visa granted under
the Migration (1989) Regulations ;
the applicant produces to the Minister evidence that adequate arrangements
have been made for the education of the applicant in Australia.
560.327 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person (in this
clause called "the principal person") who, having satisfied the primary
criteria, is a holder of a subclass 560 visa and who is:
  (a) either:
    (i) a citizen of a gazetted country; or
    (ii) a person who is normally resident in, and has an unlimited right of
re-entry to, a country specified by Gazette Notice for the purposes of this
paragraph; or
  (b) undertaking a course of study paid for, wholly or in part, by the
government of the applicant's home country or by an inter-governmental
agency; or
  (c) a person:
    (i) who is not a person referred to in paragraph (a); and
    (ii) who is not undertaking a course of study paid for wholly or in part
by the government of the applicant's home country or by an inter-governmental
agency; and
    (iii) who:
      (A) has been granted a visa or entry permit in relation to a course or
package of a duration of 12 months or more; or
      (B) has been lawfully in Australia for 12 months or more; or
      (C) was enrolled (as the holder of a subclass 560 visa) in a college
which has ceased teaching.
560.328 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the member of the family unit satisfying the
primary criteria for a subclass 560 visa:
  (a) that member of the family unit, is or is expected soon to be, in
Australia; and
  (b) unless that member of the family unit is a student under a scholarship
scheme or training program approved by AIDAB-a nomination of the applicant
by that member of the family unit, on approved form 919, has been lodged
and has been approved by the Minister.
560.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
560.411 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
560.412 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant must be in
Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
560.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
560.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
560.6 CONDITIONS
560.611 (1) If the applicant satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) in all cases, conditions 8105, 8202, 8501 and (subject to subclause
(2)) 8517; and
  (b) if the applicant is a citizen of Iran, condition 8204.
  (2) Condition 8517 does not apply to a visa granted to:
  (a) an applicant who applied for the visa before 1 March 1992; or
  (b) an applicant who:
    (i) commenced the course of study to which the visa relates before 1
March 1992; and
    (ii) held, before 1 March 1992, a student (category A) (code number 560)
or student (category B) (code number 561) visa granted under the Migration
(1989) Regulations ;
560.612 If at the time of the application the applicant was the holder of a
subclass 560 visa that was subject to condition 8523, condition 8523.
560.613 (1) If the applicant satisfies the secondary criteria:
  (a) in all cases, conditions 8501 and (subject to subclause (2)) 8518; and
  (b) if the applicant is a citizen of Iran, condition 8204; and
  (c) if the applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who is
undertaking a non-award course and who:
    (i) is not a citizen of a gazetted country; or
    (ii) is not a person who is normally resident in, and has an unlimited
right of re-entry to, a country specified by Gazette Notice for the
purposes of this paragraph; or
    (iii) is not undertaking a course of study paid for, wholly or in part,
by the government of the home country of the person satisfying the primary
criteria or by an inter-governmental agency;
condition 8101.
  (d) if the applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who:
    (i) is not enrolled in a course of study or research for a master's
degree or a doctorate: condition 9104; and
    (ii) is not a person referred to in paragraph (c);
condition 8104.
  (2) Condition 8518 does not apply:
  (a) to a visa granted to an applicant who has turned 19; or
  (b) if the member of the family unit who satisfies or has satisfied the
primary criteria for a subclass 560 visa:
    (i) applied for the visa before 1 March 1992; or
    (ii) commenced the course of study to which the visa relates before 1
March 1992 and held, before 1 March 1992, a Student (category A) (code
number 560) or student (category B) (code number 561) visa granted under
the Migration (1989) Regulations..
  (3) Any 1 or more of conditions 8303, 8503 and 8522 may be imposed.
560.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
560.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 562-IRANIAN POSTGRADUATE STUDENT
562.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
562.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
562.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
562.211 The applicant is a citizen of Iran.
562.212 The applicant is outside Australia.
562.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
562.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion specified in
clause 562.211.
562.222 The applicant produces to the Minister evidence of enrolment to
undertake a full-time course of study in Australia that is:
  (a) a course of study for a master's degree or a doctorate in Australia;
or
  (b) a graduate diploma or graduate certificate course or any other
bridging course required as a prerequisite course to a course of study or
research for a master's degree or a doctorate in Australia; or
  (c) an English language course or other prerequisite course for
undertaking a course mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) in Australia.
562.223 If the applicant is an assisted student, the applicant produces to
the Minister evidence that the Education Minister (in the case of a student
under the Subsidised Overseas Student Program) or AIDAB (in the case of a
student under a scholarship scheme or a training program that is approved
by AIDAB) supports the grant of the visa.
562.224 (1) The Minister is satisfied that the applicant is a genuine
applicant for entry as a student, having regard:
  (a) to the financial ability of the applicant to undertake the course
without contravening any condition of the visa relating to work; and
  (b) subject to subclauses (2) and (3), to the applicant's comprehension of
English for the purposes of the course; and
  (c) to whether the applicant intends to comply with any conditions subject
to which the visa is granted; and
  (d) to any other relevant matter.
  (2) If the Minister has regard to the applicant's comprehension of English
, the Minister may require the applicant to undertake an English language
test that is conducted by an agency other than Immigration.
  (3) If the applicant is required to undertake a test and does not
undertake it, or does not pass it, the Minister is not to grant the visa.
562.225 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) if the applicant seeks to stay in Australia for 12 months or more,
satisfies public interest criterion 4010; and
  (c) if the applicant has previously been in Australia, satisfies special
return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
562.226 The applicant produces to the Minister evidence of adequate
arrangements in Australia for health insurance during the period of the
applicant's intended stay in Australia.
562.227 Approval of the application would not result in the number of
subclass 562 visas granted in a financial year exceeding the number of
subclass 562 visas specified, by Gazette Notice, for the purposes of this
clause in respect of that financial year.
562.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
562.4  CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
562.411 Visa can be granted only outside Australia.
562.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
562.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
562.6 CONDITIONS
562.611 Conditions 8105, 8202, 8501, 8517, and 8203.
562.612 Either or both of conditions 8303 and 8503 may be imposed.
562.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
562.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 563-IRANIAN POSTGRADUATE STUDENT DEPENDANT
563.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
563.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
563.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
563.211 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who is the
holder of, or an applicant for, a subclass 562 visa.
563.212 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant has complied
substantially with the conditions to which any visa held or last held by
the applicant is subject.
563.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
563.221 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who holds
a subclass 562 visa.
563.222 If the applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who is
under a scholarship scheme or training program approved by AIDAB, the
applicant produces to the Minister evidence that AIDAB supports the
application for the visa.
563.223 The Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) the applicant genuinely seeks temporary entry as a member of the
family unit of a person who holds a subclass 562 visa and intends to comply
with any conditions subject to which the visa is granted; and
  (b) the member of the family unit who holds a subclass 562 visa will have
adequate means to support himself or herself and the applicant during the
period of the applicant's intended stay in Australia, having regard to any
work rights they may have in Australia during that period.
563.224 If the applicant is a school-age dependant of the subclass 562 visa
holder and the period of stay proposed in the application is more than 3
months, the applicant produces to the Minister evidence that adequate
arrangements have been made for the education of the applicant in
Australia.
563.225 The applicant produces to the Minister evidence of adequate
arrangements in Australia for health insurance during the period of the
applicant's stay in Australia.
563.226 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005; and
  (b) if the applicant seeks to stay in Australia for 12 months or more,
satisfies public interest criterion 4010; and
  (c) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007
to 5009.
563.227 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant continues to
satisfy the criterion in clause 563.212.
563.228 If the application is made outside Australia and the application is
made separately from that of the member of the family unit who is the
holder of, or an applicant for, a subclass 562 visa:
  (a) that member is, or is expected soon to be, in Australia; and
  (b) unless that member of the family unit is a student under a scholarship
scheme or training program approved by AIDAB, a nomination by that member
of the applicant (on approved form 919) has been lodged and has been
approved by the Minister.
563.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
563.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
563.411 If the application is made outside Australia, the applicant must be
outside Australia at the time of grant.
563.412 If the application is made in Australia, the applicant must be in
Australia at the time of grant.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
563.5  WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
563.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to, enter and remain
in Australia until a date specified by the Minister.
563.6 CONDITIONS
563.611 (1) If the application is made outside Australia:
  (a) in all cases-conditions 8501 and 8204, and (subject to subclause (2))
8518; and
  (b) if the member of the family unit who holds a subclass 562 visa is not
enrolled in a course of study or research for a master's degree or a
doctorate, condition 8104.
  (2) Condition 8518 does not apply to a visa granted to an applicant who
has turned 19.
563.612 (1) If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) in all cases-conditions 8501 and 8204, and (subject to subclause (2))
8518 ; and
  (b) if the member of the family unit of the person who holds a subclass
562 visa is not enrolled in a course of study or research for a master's
degree or a doctorate, condition 8104.
  (2) Condition 8518 does not apply to a visa granted to an applicant who
has turned 19.
563.613 Any 1 or more of conditions 8303, 8503 or 8522 may be imposed.
563. 7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
563. 71 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 661-SPECIAL TOURIST
661.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Tourism" is defined in regulation 1.03. No interpretation
provisions specific to this Part.)
661.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
661.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
661.211 (1) The applicant seeks to visit Australia for the purpose of
tourism, and has adequate funds for personal support during the period of
the visit.
  (2) The application is made:
  (a) in a country in which special arrangements for the grant of visas for
travel to Australia for the purpose of tourism apply; and
  (b) by a citizen of that country in accordance with those special
arrangements.
661.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
661.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in clause
661.211.
661.222 The applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention
of the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine.
661.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005.
661.224 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009.
661.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
661.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
661.411 The applicant must be outside Australia and in a country in which
special arrangements for the grant of visas for travel to Australia for the
purpose of tourism apply at the time of grant.
661.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
661.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia until a date specified by the
Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 6 months after the date) specified by
the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not later than 6 months after the date referred to in
paragraph (a)) specified by the Minister for the purpose.
661.6 CONDITIONS
661.611 Conditions 8101, 8201, 8503 and 8205.
661.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
661.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 670-TOURIST (SHORT STAY)
670.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Tourism" is defined is regulation 1.03. No interpretation
provisions specific to this Part.)
670.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
670.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
670.211 The applicant seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a
visitor, for the purpose of tourism and has adequate funds for personal
support during the period of the visit.
670.212 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application does not exceed 3 months.
670.213 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa ; or
    (ii) does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa except a visa of subclass 426; and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (b) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and
  (c) the grant of the visa would not result in the applicant being
authorised to remain in Australia for more than 3 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas.
670.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
670.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 670.211;
and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 670.212; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, 4011
and 4012; and
  (f) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (g) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in paragraphs
670.213 (b) and (c); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions subject to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (v) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant satisfies the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is in Australia; and
  (b satisfies the criteria in paragraph 670.221 (2) (c) and subparagraph
670.221 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa and
satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
670.222 If, at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
subclass 417 visa, the applicant establishes that exceptional reasons exist
for the grant of the visa.
670.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
670.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
670.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
670.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
670.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
670.511 If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa permitting
the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each entry)
specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each entry)
specified by the Minister for the purpose.
670.512 (1) In this clause:
  "date of latest entry", in relation to the holder of a visa, is the date
on which he or she last entered Australia before the grant of the visa.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia during the visa period:
    (i) to travel to and enter, Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose.
670.6 CONDITIONS
670.611 Conditions 8101, 8201 and 8205.
670.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
670.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
670.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 672-BUSINESS VISITOR (SHORT STAY)
672.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Work" is defined in regulation 1.03. No interpretation provisions
specific to this Part.)
672.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
672.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
672.211 The applicant seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a
visitor, for business purposes and has adequate funds for personal support
during the period of the visit.
672.212 The applicant does not intend to engage in work that might
otherwise be carried out by an Australian citizen or an Australian
permanent resident.
672.213 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application does not exceed 3 months.
672.214 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa ; or
    (ii) the applicant does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa except a visa of subclass 426; and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (b) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and
  (c) the grant of the visa would not result in the applicant being
authorised to remain in Australia for more than 3 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas.
672.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
672.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 672.211 and
672.212; and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criteria in clause 672.213; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that he grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4011; and
  (f) if the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfied special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (g) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in paragraphs
672.214 (b) and (c); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions subject to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (iv) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is in Australia; and:
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 672.221 (2) (c) and subparagraph
672.221 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa and
satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
672.222 If, at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
subclass 417 visa, the applicant establishes that exceptional reasons exist
for the grant of the visa.
672.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
672.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
672.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
672.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
672.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
672.511 If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa permitting
the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each entry
date) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each entry
specified by the Minister for the purpose.
672.512 (1) In this clause:
  "date of latest entry", in relation to the holder of a visa, is the date
on which he or she last entered Australia before the grant of the visa.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia during the visa period:
    (i) to travel to and enter Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose.
672.6 CONDITIONS
672.611 Conditions 8201, 8106 and 8205.
672.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
672.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
672.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 673-CLOSE FAMILY VISITOR (SHORT STAY)
673.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
673.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
673.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
673.211 The applicant:
  (a) seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a visitor, for the
purpose of visiting an Australian citizen or an Australian permanent
resident, who is a parent, spouse, child, brother or sister of the
applicant; and
  (b) has adequate funds for personal support during the period of the
visit.
673.212 It the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application does not exceed 3 months.
673.213 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa; or
    (ii) the applicant does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa except a visa of subclass 426; and
      (B) satisfies criteria 6003, 6005 and 6006; and
  (b) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and
  (c) the grant of the visa would not result in the applicant being
authorised to remain in Australia for more than 3 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor (short stay) visas.
673.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
673.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clause 673.211; and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 673.212; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4011;
  (f) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfied special re-entry criteria 5001, 5003,
5005, 5007, 5009 and 5010; and
  (g) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in paragraphs
673.213 (b) and (c); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions subject to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (v) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant satisfies the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is in Australia; and
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraphs 673.221 (2) (c) and (d) and
subparagraph 673.221 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (d) satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
673.222 If, at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
subclass 417 visa, the applicant establishes that exceptional reasons exist
for the grant of the visa.
673.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
673.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
673.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
673.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
673.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
673.511 If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa permitting
the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
 `(b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each entry)
specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each entry
specified by the Minister for the purpose.
673.512 (1) In this clause:
  "date of latest entry", in relation to the holder of a visa, is the date
on which he or she last entered Australia before the grant of the visa.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia:
    (i) to travel to and enter Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose.
673.6 CONDITIONS
673.611 Conditions 9101, 9106 and 9234.
673.612 Condition 9225 may be imposed.
673.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
673.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 674-VISITOR OTHER (SHORT STAY)
674.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
674.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
674.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
674.211 The applicant:
  (a) seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a visitor,
primarily for reasons other than tourism, business, medical treatment or to
visit close family relatives; and
  (b) has adequate funds for personal support during the period of the
visit.
674.212 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application does not exceed 3 months.
674.213 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa; or
    (ii) the applicant does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a visa of subclass 426;
and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (c) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and
  (d) the grant of the visa would not result in the applicant being
authorised to remain in Australia for more than 3 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor (short stay) visas.
674.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
674.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 674.211;
and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 674.212; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, 4011
and 4012; and
  (f) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (g) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in paragraphs
674.213 (b) and (c); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions subject to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (v) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant satisfies the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is in Australia; and:
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 674.221 (2) (c) and subparagraph
674.221 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (d) satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
674.222 If, at the time of application, the applicant was the holder of a
subclass 417 visa, the applicant establishes that exceptional reasons exist
for the grant of the visa.
674.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
674.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
674.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
674.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
674.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
674.511 If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa permitting
the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each entry)
specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each entry)
specified by the Minister for the purpose.
674.512 (1) In this clause:
  "date of latest entry", in relation to the holder of a visa, is the date
on which he or she last entered Australia before the grant of the visa.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia:
    (i) to travel to and enter Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose.
674.6 CONDITIONS
674.611 Conditions 8101, 8201 and 8205.
674.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
674.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
674.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 675-MEDICAL TREATMENT (SHORT STAY)
675.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
675.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
675.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
675.211 The applicant seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a
visitor, for the purposes of medical treatment or for related purposes.
675.212 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3), (4)
or (5).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to obtain medical treatment (including consultation), other than
treatment for the purposes of surrogate motherhood, in Australia; and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded to carry
out the treatment; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded for the
payment of all costs related to the treatment and all other expenses of the
applicant's stay in Australia, including the expenses of any person
accompanying the applicant; and
  (d) satisfies the Minister that, except where evidence is produced that
the relevant government authority has otherwise approved, the payment of
those costs will not be a charge on the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory
or any public authority in Australia; and
  (e) satisfies the Minister that, if the treatment is an organ transplant,
the donor of the relevant organ is accompanying the applicant to Australia
or that all requisite arrangements to effect the donation of the organ have
been concluded in Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to donate an organ for transplant in Australia; and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that, if the donee is an applicant referred to
in subclause (2), the donee meets the requirements of that subclause; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded for the
payment of all costs related to the organ transplant and all other expenses
of the applicant's stay in Australia, including the expenses of any person
accompanying the applicant; and
  (d) satisfies the Minister that, except where evidence is produced that
the relevant government authority has otherwise approved, the payment of
those costs will not be a charge on the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory
or any public authority in Australia.
  (4) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to travel to Australia to give emotional and other support to an
applicant described in subclause (2) or (3); and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that the person to whom the applicant is to
provide support meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3), as the case
requires; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded for the
payment of all expenses related to procedures to be undergone by the person
to whom the applicant seeks to provide support, including the expenses of
the applicant's stay in Australia; and
  (d) satisfies the Minister that, except where evidence is produced that
the relevant government authority has otherwise approved, the payment of
those expenses will not be a charge on the Commonwealth, a State, a
Territory or any public authority in Australia.
  (5) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant is a citizen of Papua New Guinea who:
  (a) resides in the Western Province of Papua New Guinea; and
  (b) is approved by the Queensland Department of Health for medical
evacuation to a hospital in Queensland.
675.213 The Minister is satisfied that no Australian citizen or Australian
permanent resident would be disadvantaged in obtaining medical treatment or
consultation if the visa was granted.
675.214 The applicant has adequate funds for personal support during the
period of the visit.
675.215 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application does not exceed 3 months.
675.216 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa; or
    (ii) does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass 426 visa; and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (c) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject;
and
  (d) the grant of the visa would not result in the applicant being
authorised to remain in Australia for more than 3 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas.
675.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
675.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
 2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 675.211 to
675.214; and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 675.215; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (e) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfied special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (f) if the applicant is a person described in subclause 675.212 (2), the
applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant does not suffer from a
condition that could be a threat to public health in Australia; and
  (g) if the applicant is a person described in subclause 675.212 (3), the
applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant:
    (i) is free from tuberculosis or any other communicable disease of a
fatal or serious nature that, in the opinion of a Commonwealth medical
officer, is a threat to public health in Australia, and is not suspected of
having contracted such a disease; and
    (ii) is free from any other disease or condition that, in the opinion of
a Commonwealth medical officer, would be a danger to members of the
Australian community; and
    (iii) is free from any disease or condition (other than a disease or
condition normally related to the organ transplant for which the applicant
is coming to Australia) that, during the applicant's proposed period of
stay in Australia, would, in the opinion of a Commonwealth medical officer:
      (A) require care or treatment (or both) involving the use of community
resources in short supply; or
      (B) result in the applicant becoming a significant charge on public
funds; and
  (h) if the applicant is a person described in subclause 675.212 (4), the
applicant satisfies public interest criterion 4005; and
  (j) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted; and
    (iii) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the applicant
is in Australia and:
  (a) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 675.221 (2) (c) and subparagraph
675.221 (j) (ii); and
  (b) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (c) satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
675.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
675.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
675.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
675.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
675.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
675.511 If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa permitting
the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each entry)
specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each entry)
specified by the Minister for the purpose.
675.512 (1) In this clause:
  "date of latest entry", in relation to the holder of a visa, is the date
on which he or she last entered Australia before the grant of the visa.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date (not longer than 3 months after the date of latest
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia:
    (i) to travel to and enter Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period (not longer than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date (not later than 3 months after the date of each
entry) specified by the Minister for the purpose.
675.6 CONDITIONS
675.611 Conditions 8101, 8201 and 8205.
675.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
675.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
675.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 680-TOURIST (LONG STAY)
680.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Tourism" is defined in regulation 1.03. No interpretation
provisions specific to this Part.)
680.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
680.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
680.211 The applicant seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a
visitor, for the purpose of tourism and has adequate funds for personal
support during the period of the visit.
680.212 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application exceeds 3 months.
680.213 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa; or
    (ii) does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa except a visa of subclass 426; and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (b) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
680.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
680.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 680.211;
and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 680.212; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, 4011
and 4012; and
  (f) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (g) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in paragraph
680.213 (b); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (v) if the grant of the visa would result in the applicant being
authorised to stay in Australia for more than 12 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas or a subclass 417 visa, the applicant
must satisfy the Minister that exceptional circumstances exist for the
grant of the visa; and
    (vi) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) a student under a scholarship scheme or training program approved
by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
 applicant:
  (a) is in Australia; and:
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 680.221 (2) (c) and subparagraph
680.221 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (d) satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
680.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
680.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
680.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
680.412 If the applicant is in Australia at time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
680.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
680.511 (1) If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa
permitting the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia: for a period, or until a date specified by the
Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia during the visa period:
    (i) to travel to and enter Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia after each entry:
      (A) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
680.6 CONDITIONS
680.611 Conditions 8101, 8201 and 8205.
680.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
680.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
680.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 682-BUSINESS VISITOR (LONG STAY)
682.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "Work" is defined in regulation 1.03. No interpretation provisions
specific to this Part.)
682.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
682.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
682.211 The applicant seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a
visitor, for business purposes and has adequate funds for personal support
during the period of the visit.
682.212 The applicant does not intend to engage in work that might
otherwise be carried out by an Australian citizen or an Australian
permanent resident.
682.213 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application exceeds 3 months.
682.214 If the application is made in the Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa; or
    (ii) the applicant does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa except a visa of subclass 426; and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (b) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
682.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
682.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 682.211 and
682.212; and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 682.213; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4011; and
  (f) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (g) if the application is made in the Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in paragraphs
682.214 (b); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (v) if the grant of the visa would result in the applicant being
authorised to stay in Australia for more than 12 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas or a subclass 417 visa, the applicant
must satisfy the Minister that exceptional circumstances exist for the
grant of the visa; and
    (vi) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant satisfies the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is in the Australia; and:
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 682.221 (2) (c) and subparagraph
682.221 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (d) satisfies the public interest criterion 4005.
682.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
682.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
682.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside the Australia at the time of grant.
682.412 If the applicant is in the Australia at time of application, the
applicant must be in the Australia at the time of grant.
682.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
682.511 (1) If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa
permitting the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia during the visa period:
    (i) to travel to and enter Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
682.6 CONDITIONS
682.611 Conditions 8201, 8106 and 8205.
682.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
682.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
682.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 683-CLOSE FAMILY VISITOR (LONG STAY)
683.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
683.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
683.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
683.211 The applicant:
  (a) seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a visitor, for the
purpose of visiting an Australian citizen or an Australian permanent
resident, who is a parent, spouse, child, brother or sister of the
applicant; and
  (b) has adequate funds for personal support during the period of the
visit.
683.212 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application exceeds 3 months.
683.213 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa; or
    (ii) does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass 426 visa; and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (b) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
683.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
683.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 683.211;
and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 680.212; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005 and
4011; and
  (f) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (g) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
paragraphs 683.213 (b); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (v) if the grant of the visa would result in the applicant being
authorised to stay in Australia for more than 12 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas, or a subclass 417 visa, the applicant
must satisfy the Minister that exceptional circumstances exist for the
grant of the visa; and
    (vi) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) The applicant:
  (a) is in Australia; and
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 683.221 (2) (b) and subparagraph
683.221 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (d) satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
683.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
683.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
683.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
683.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
683.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
683.511 If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa permitting
the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia during the visa period:
    (i) to travel to and enter Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
683.6 CONDITIONS
683.611 Conditions 8101, 8201 and 8205.
683.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
683.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
683.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 684-VISITOR OTHER (LONG STAY)
684.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
684.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
684.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
684.211 The applicant:
  (a) seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a visitor,
primarily for reasons other than tourism, business, medical treatment or to
visit close family relatives; and
  (b) has adequate funds for personal support during the period of the
visit.
684.212 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application exceeds 3 months.
684.213 If the application is made in Australia:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than a subclass
426 visa; or
    (ii) the applicant does not hold a substantive visa and:
      (A) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was the
holder of a temporary visa a visa of subclass 426; and
      (B) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (b) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
684.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
684.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clause 684.211; and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 684.212; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the applicant; and
  (e) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005, 4011
and 4012; and
  (f) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (g) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in paragraph
684.213 (b); and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (iii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply
with any conditions to which the visa is granted; and
    (iv) the applicant produces evidence of adequate arrangements for health
insurance to cover possible medical or hospital expenses; and
    (v) if the grant of the visa would result in the applicant being
authorised to stay in Australia for more than 12 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas or a subclass 417 visa, the applicant
must satisfy the Minister that exceptional circumstances exist for the
grant of the visa; and
    (vi) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having satisfied
the primary criteria for that visa; and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is in Australia; and
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 684.221 (2) (c) and subparagraph
684.211 (2) (g) (iii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (d) satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
684.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
684.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
684.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
684.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
684.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
684.511 (1) If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa
permitting the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia during the visa period:
    (i) to travel to, and enter, Australia on one or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
684.6 CONDITIONS
684.61 Conditions 8101, 8201 and 8205.
684.62 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
684.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
684.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 685-MEDICAL TREATMENT (LONG STAY)
685.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
685.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
685.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
685.211 The applicant seeks to visit Australia, or remain in Australia as a
visitor, for the purposes of medical treatment or for related purposes.
685.212 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3),
(4), (5), (6) or (7).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to travel to Australia to obtain medical treatment (including
consultation), other than treatment for the purposes of surrogate
motherhood, in Australia; and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded to carry
out the treatment; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded for the
payment of all costs related to the treatment and all other expenses of the
applicant's stay in Australia, including the expenses of any person
accompanying the applicant; and
  (d) satisfies the Minister that, except where evidence is produced that
the relevant government authority has otherwise approved, the payment of
those costs will not be a charge on the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory
or a public authority in Australia; and
  (e) satisfies the Minister that, if the treatment is an organ transplant,
the donor of the relevant organ is accompanying the applicant to Australia
or that all requisite arrangements to effect the donation of the organ have
been concluded in Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to travel to Australia to donate an organ for transplant in
Australia; and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that, if the donee is an applicant referred to
in subclause (2), the donee meets the requirements of that subclause; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded for the
payment of all costs related to the organ transplant and all other expenses
of the applicant's stay in Australia, including the expenses of any person
accompanying the applicant; and
  (d) satisfies the Minister that, except where evidence is produced that
the relevant government authority has otherwise approved, the payment of
those costs will not be a charge on the Commonwealth, a State, a Territory
or a public authority in Australia.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) seeks to travel to Australia to give emotional and other support to an
applicant described in subclause (2) or (3); and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that the person to whom the applicant is to
provide support meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3), as the case
requires; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that arrangements have been concluded for the
payment of all expenses related to procedures to be undergone by the person
to whom the applicant seeks to provide support, including the expenses of
the applicant's stay in Australia; and
  (d) satisfies the Minister that, except where evidence is produced that
the relevant government authority has otherwise approved, the payment of
those expenses will not be a charge on the Commonwealth, a State, a
Territory or a public authority in Australia.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the applicant
is a citizen of Papua New Guinea who:
  (a) resides in the Western Province of Papua New Guinea; and
  (b) is approved by the Queensland Department of Health for medical
evacuation to a hospital in Queensland.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she:
  (a) is in Australia; and
  (b) has turned 50; and
  (c) while in Australia, applied:
    (i) for a permanent entry permit before 1 September 1994; or
    (ii) for a permanent visa on or after 1 September 1994; and
  (d) has met all the criteria for the grant of that visa or entry permit
other than public interest criteria related to health; and
  (e) has been refused the visa or entry permit.
  (7) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she is
a member of the family unit of a person who meets the requirements of
subclause (6).
685.213 Except in the case of an applicant referred to in subclause 685.212
(6) or (7), the Minister is satisfied that no Australian citizen or
Australian permanent resident would be disadvantaged in obtaining medical
treatment or consultation if the visa was granted.
685.214 Except in the case of an applicant referred to in subclause 685.212
(6) or (7), the applicant has adequate funds for personal support during
the period of the visit.
685.215 If the application is made outside Australia, the period of stay in
Australia proposed in the application exceeds 3 months.
685.216 (1) Subject to subclause (2), if the application is made in
Australia:
  (a) the applicant is the holder of a substantive temporary visa other than
a subclass 426 visa; or
  (b) the applicant does not hold a substantive visa and:
    (i) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa was the holder
of a temporary visa other than a visa of subclass 426; and
    (ii) satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003, 3004 and 3005; and
  (c) the applicant has complied substantially with the conditions to which
the visa (if any) held, or last held, by the applicant is, or was, subject.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant referred to in subclause
685.212 (6) or (7).
685.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
685.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3), (4)
or (5).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clauses 685.211 to
685.214; and
  (b) if the application is made outside Australia, the applicant continues
to satisfy the criterion in clause 684.215; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the expressed intention of
the applicant only to visit Australia is genuine; and
  (d) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (e) if the applicant is applying outside Australia and has previously been
in Australia, the applicant satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003,
5005 and 5007 to 5009; and
  (f) if the applicant is a person described in subclause 685.212 (2), the
applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant does not suffer from a
condition that could be a threat to public health in Australia; and
  (g) if the applicant is a person described in subclause 685.212 (3), the
applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant:
    (i) is free from tuberculosis or any other communicable disease of a
fatal or serious nature which, in the opinion of a Commonwealth medical
officer, is a threat to public health in Australia, and is not suspected of
having contracted such a disease; and
    (ii) is free from any other disease or condition which, in the opinion
of a Commonwealth medical officer, would be a danger to members of the
Australian community; and
    (iii) is free from any disease or condition (other than a disease or
condition normally related to the organ transplant for which the applicant
is coming to Australia) which, during the applicant's proposed period of
stay in Australia, would, in the opinion of a Commonwealth medical officer:
      (A) require care or treatment (or both) involving the use of community
resources in short supply; or
      (B) result in the applicant becoming a significant charge on public
funds; and
  (h) if the applicant is a person described in subclause 685.212 (4), the
applicant satisfies public interest criterion 4005; and
  (j) if the application is made in Australia:
    (i) the Minister is satisfied that the further period of stay in
Australia is not sought for the purpose of commencing, continuing or
completing any studies or training; and
    (ii) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant intends to comply with
any conditions subject to which the visa is granted; and
    (iii) if the grant of the visa would result in the applicant being
authorised to stay in Australia for more than 12 consecutive months as the
holder of 1 or more visitor visas, the applicant must satisfy the Minister
that compelling personal reasons or exceptional circumstances exist for the
grant of the visa; and
    (iv) if, at the time of application, the applicant was:
      (A) the holder of a student visa on the grounds of having met the
primary criteria for that visa and
      (B) the student is under a scholarship scheme or training program that
is approved by AIDAB;
the applicant has the support of AIDAB for the grant of the visa.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is in Australia and:
  (b) satisfies the criteria in paragraph 685.221 (2) (c) and 685.211 (2)
        (j) (ii); and
  (c) has compelling personal reasons for the grant of the visa; and
  (d) satisfies public interest criterion 4005.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she:
  (a) satisfies the criterion in subclause 685.212 (6); and
  (b) is medically unfit to depart Australia, as evidenced by a written
statement to that effect from the Commonwealth Medical Officer.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she:
  (a) is a member of the family unit of a person who satisfies the criterion
in subclause 685.212 (6); and
  (b) that person is unfit to depart Australia, as evidenced by a statement
from the Commonwealth Medical Officer.
685.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
685.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
685.411 If the applicant is outside Australia at the time of application,
the applicant must be outside Australia at the time of grant.
685.412 If the applicant is in Australia at the time of application, the
applicant must be in Australia at the time of grant.
685.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
685.511 (1) If the visa is granted outside Australia-temporary visa
permitting the holder:
  (a) to travel to, and enter, Australia on 1 or more occasions until a date
specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
  (2) If the visa is granted in Australia-temporary visa permitting the
holder:
  (a) to remain in Australia:
    (i) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
    (ii) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) if the holder leaves Australia during the visa period:
    (i) to travel to, and enter, Australia on 1 or more occasions until a
date specified by the Minister for the purpose; and
    (ii) to remain in Australia:
      (A) for a period specified by the Minister for the purpose; or
      (B) until a date specified by the Minister for the purpose.
685.6 CONDITIONS
685.611 Conditions 8101, 8201 and 8205.
685.612 Condition 8503 may be imposed.
685.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
685.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 771-TRANSIT
771.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "non-military ship" and "member of the crew" are defined in
regulation 1.03. No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
771.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
771.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
771.211 The applicant intends to remain in Australia no longer than 72
hours.
771.212 The applicant establishes that the applicant's principal purpose in
entering Australia is:
  (a) to pass through Australia in transit to another country; or
  (b) to pass through Australia in order to join a non-military ship (other
than a ship that is being imported into Australia) as a member of its crew.
771.213 The applicant produces tickets or documentation, or both,
establishing that the applicant has concluded arrangements for travel to a
destination outside Australia.
771.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
771.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria specified in
clauses 771.211 to 771.213.
771.222 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001, 4002, 4004
and 4005.
771.223 If the applicant has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
771.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
771.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
771.411 The applicant must be outside Australia when the visa is granted.
771.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
771.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia on 1 or more occasions and to remain in Australia no longer than
72 hours on each occasion.
771.6 CONDITIONS
771.611 The holder must enter on or before the date specified by the
Minister for the purpose.
771.612 Conditions 8101 and 8201.
771.613 Any 1 or more of conditions 8501, 8514 and 8516 may be imposed.
771.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
771.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 773-BORDER
773.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
773.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
773.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
773.211 If the applicant has entered Australia and seeks immigration
clearance, the applicant satisfies the criteria in clauses 773.212 to
773.216.
773.212 The applicant does not seek to remain in Australia as a refugee or
on humanitarian grounds.
773.213 (1) The applicant is:
  (a) the spouse of an Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or
an eligible New Zealand citizen; or
  (b) a person who is apparently eligible for a Return (Residence) visa or
Resident Return (Temporary) visa; or
  (c) a person who has entered Australia with a visa that has been cancelled
on presentation in immigration clearance because the person has breached a
condition that the person is not to arrive in Australia before the arrival
of another person specified in the visa; or
  (d) a person who:
    (i) is a dependent child of:
      (A) an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an
eligible New Zealand citizen; or
      (B) the holder of a visa of a class set out in subclause (2); or
      (C) the holder of visa of a class set out in subclause (3); and
    (ii) arrives in Australia in the care of a person who is an Australian
citizen or the holder of a visa; or
  (e) a person who:
    (i) immediately before last departing Australia, held a visa of a class
set out in subclause (3); and
    (ii) departed in circumstances in which it was not reasonably
practicable to obtain a visa before departing; and
    (iii) would, if refused immigration clearance, be prevented from reunion
with a close relative of the person in Australia; or
  (f) a person who:
    (i) immediately before last departing Australia, held a Student
(Temporary) visa; and
    (ii) departed in circumstances in which it was not reasonably
practicable for the person to obtain a visa before departing; or
  (g) a person who:
    (i) has entered Australia without a valid visa; and
    (ii) seeks to remain in Australia on a temporary basis; and
    (iii) is apparently eligible for a Short Stay (Visitor), Long Stay
(Visitor) or a Special Tourist (Visitor) visa.
  (2) The classes of visa referred to in sub-subparagraph (1) (d) (i) (B)
are the following:
  (a) Spouse (Migrant);
  (b) Child (Migrant);
  (c) Adoption (Migrant);
  (d) Parent (Migrant);
  (e) Preferential Family (Migrant);
  (f) Concessional Family (Migrant);
  (g) Labour Agreement (Migrant);
  (h) Employer Nomination (Migrant);
  (j) Distinguished Talent (Migrant);
  (k) Independent (Migrant);
  (l) Business Skills (Migrant);
  (m) Former Citizen (Migrant);
  (n) Former Resident (Migrant);
  (p) Family of New Zealand Citizen (Migrant);
  (q) General (Residence);
  (r) Change in Circumstances (Residence);
  (s) Confirmatory (Residence);
  (t) Family (Residence);
  (u) Refugee and Humanitarian (Migrant);
  (v) Camp Clearance (Migrant);
  (w) East Timorese in Portugal (Special Assistance);
  (x) Citizens of Former Yugoslavia (Special Assistance);
  (y) Minorities of Former USSR (Special Assistance);
  (z) Burmese in Burma (Special Assistance);
  (za) Sudanese (Special Assistance);
  (zb) Burmese in Thailand (Special Assistance);
  (zc) Cambodian (Special Assistance);
  (zd) Return (Residence);
  (ze) Norfolk Island Permanent Resident (Residence);
  (zf) Protection ;
  (zg) Territorial Asylum (Residence).
  (3) The classes of visa referred to in sub-subparagraph (1) (d) (i) (C)
and subparagraph (1) (e) (i) are the following:
  (a) Emergency (Temporary) subclass 303;
  (b) Business (Temporary);
  (c) Cultural/Social (Temporary);
  (d) Diplomatic (Temporary);
  (e) Domestic Worker (Temporary);
  (f) Educational (Temporary);
  (g) Expatriate (Temporary);
  (h) Family Relationship (Temporary);
  (j) Interdependency (Temporary);
  (k) Retirement (Temporary);
  (l) Supported Dependent (Temporary);
  (m) Working Holiday (Temporary).
773.214 In the case of an application by an applicant other than a person
referred to in paragraph 773.213 (c), the Minister is satisfied that:
  (a) there are compelling reasons for granting a subclass 773 visa to the
applicant; and
  (b) the presence of the applicant in Australia would not be contrary to
Australia's interests; and
  (c) the applicant has a good reason for not being the holder of a visa.
773.215 In the case of an application by an applicant referred to in
paragraph 773.213 (c), the Minister is satisfied, on the basis of a written
statement by the applicant, that:
  (a) the applicant has reasonable grounds for having failed to comply with
the condition; and
  (b) there are compelling reasons for allowing the applicant to leave the
place of immigration clearance with the permission of the clearance
officer; and
  (c) the specified person referred to in that paragraph will arrive in
Australia within 30 days of the applicant being allowed to leave the place
of immigration clearance with the permission of the clearance officer.
773.216 (1) Subject to subclause (2), if the applicant is an applicant
referred to in paragraph 773.213 (e), (f) or (g), the application is not
made within 5 years of the grant of a previous subclass 773 visa that was
granted to the applicant on the basis of the applicant being a person of
that kind.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to a person who is a passenger on a
vessel that has entered Australia because of matters beyond the control of
the person in command of the vessel.
773.217 If the application is made in Australia after immigration
clearance, the applicant is the holder of a subclass 773 visa that was
granted to the holder as a person referred to in paragraph 773.213 (d).
773.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
773.221 If the application is made in Australia and the applicant seeks
immigration clearance, the applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in
clauses 773.212 to 773.216.
773.222 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4005.
773.223 If the application is made in Australia and the applicant seeks
immigration clearance, and has previously been in Australia, the applicant
satisfies special return criteria 5001, 5003, 5005 and 5007 to 5010.
773.224 If the application is made in Australia after immigration
clearance:
  (a) the subclass 773 visa held by the applicant was granted subject to the
satisfaction of a requirement or condition before the expiry of a period
specified in the visa and that requirement has not been satisfied; and
  (b) the applicant establishes that it was not possible to satisfy the
requirement or condition before expiry of the period; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the
person to leave Australia.
773.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
773.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
773.411 When visa is granted, the applicant must be:
  (a) in Australia and in immigration clearance; or
  (b) in Australia after immigration clearance.
773.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
773.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to remain in Australia for a
period specified on the visa, not exceeding 30 days from the date of grant.
773.6 CONDITIONS
773.611 Conditions applicable to the visa for which the applicant is
apparently eligible.
773.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
773.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.
SUBCLASS 800-TERRITORIAL ASYLUM
800.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
800.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
800.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
800.211 The applicant has been granted territorial asylum in Australia by
instrument of a Minister.
800.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
800.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion specified in
clause 800.211.
800.221 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006 and
4009.
800.222 (1) Each person who is a member of the family unit of the applicant
and is also an applicant for a subclass 800 visa satisfies public interest
criteria 4001 to 4006 and 4009.
  (2) Each person who is a member of the family unit of the applicant and is
not an applicant for a subclass 800 visa satisfies public interest criteria
4005 and 4006, unless the Minister is satisfied that it would be
unreasonable to require the person to undergo assessment in relation to
those criteria.
800.223 If the family unit of the applicant includes a dependent child who
made a combined application with the applicant for a subclass 800 visa, the
Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the child would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, the child.
800.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
800.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
800.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
satisfies or has satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 800.21.
800.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
800.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 800 visa.
800.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006 and
4009.
800.323 If the applicant is the dependent child of a person who is the
holder of a subclass 800 visa, the Minister is satisfied that the grant of
the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of
any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the
applicant.
800.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
800.411 The applicant must be in the migration zone when the visa is
granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
800.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
800.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from date of grant.
800.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
800.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
800.711 Visa label affixed to a valid passport.
SUBCLASS 801-SPOUSE
801.1 INTERPRETATION
801.11 In this Part:
  "nominating spouse", in relation to an applicant who is the holder of a
subclass 820 visa, means the person who nominated the applicant for the
grant of that visa.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
801.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
801.21 (No criteria to be satisfied at time of application.)
801.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
801.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3),
(4), (5) or (6).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is the holder of a subclass 820 visa; and
  (b) the applicant continues to be nominated for the grant of the subclass
801 visa by the nominating spouse; and
  (c) the marital relationship between the applicant and the nominating
spouse is both genuine and continuing; and
  (d) subject to subclause (7), at least 2 years have passed since the
application was made.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the applicant
is the holder of a subclass 820 visa granted on the basis that the
applicant satisfied the requirements of subclause 820.221 (2).
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the applicant
is the holder of a subclass 820 visa granted on the basis that the
applicant satisfied the requirements of subclause 820.221 (3).
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is the holder of a subclass 820 visa; and
  (b) would meet the requirements of subclause (2) except that the
nominating spouse has died; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that the marital relationship was genuine and
would have continued if the nominating spouse had not died; and
  (d) has developed close business, cultural or personal ties in Australia.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is the holder of a subclass 820 visa; and
  (b) the applicant would meet the requirements of subclause (2) except that
the marital relationship between the applicant and the nominating spouse
has ceased; and
  (c) one or more of the following circumstances applies:
    (i) on the application of the applicant, a court has granted an
injunction under paragraph 114 (1) (a), (b) or (c) of the Family Law Act
1975 against the nominating spouse;
    (ii) a court has made an order under a law of a State or Territory
against the nominating spouse for the protection of the applicant from
domestic violence;
    (iii) a court has convicted the nominating spouse of, or has recorded a
finding of guilt against the nominating spouse in respect of, assault or
some other offence of violence against the applicant;
    (iv) the applicant has custody or joint custody of at least 1 child in
respect of whom:
      (A) a court has granted joint custody or access to the nominating
spouse; or
      (B) the nominating spouse is subject to a formal maintenance
obligation.
  (7) Nothing in paragraph (2) (d) prevents the Minister, less than 2 years
after the application is made:
  (a) refusing to grant a subclass 801 visa; or
  (b) granting a subclass 801 visa to an applicant who was granted a
subclass 820 (Spouse) visa on the basis that he or she satisfied the
requirements of subclause 820.211 (3) or (5); or
  (c) granting a subclass 801 visa to an applicant who was granted:
    (i) an extended eligibility (spouse) (code number 820) entry permit
under the Migration (1989) Regulations; or
    (ii) a Class 820 (extended eligiblility (spouse)) entry permit under the
Migration (1993) Regulations;
other than an applicant whose application was in accordance with approved
form 887; or
  (d) approving the grant of a subclass 801 visa to an applicant who meets
the requirements of subclause (5) or (6).
801.222 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
801.223 (1) Subject to subclause (2), the applicant satisfies public
interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant who holds a subclass 820
visa granted on the basis that the applicant satisfied the requirements of
subclause 820.211 (3), (4) or (5).
801.224 (1) Subject to subclause (3), each member of the family unit of the
applicant who is an applicant for a subclass 801 visa satisfies public
interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 801 visa satisfies:
  (a) public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) public interest criteria 4007 and 4008, unless the Minister is
satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
  (3) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant who satisfies the
requirements of subclause 801.321 as the holder of a subclass 820 visa
granted on the basis that the applicant:
  (a) was the dependent child of a person who satisfied the requirements of
subclause 820.211 (3), (4) or (5); and
  (b) entered Australia as the holder, as a dependent child, of a visa of
the same class as the visa held by that person.
801.225 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, a dependent child of the
applicant.
801.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
dependent children of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
801.31 (No criteria to be satisfied at time of application.)
801.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
801.321 An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is the holder of a subclass 445 visa or a subclass 820
visa granted on the basis that the applicant was the dependent child of
another person who was the holder of a subclass 820 visa; and
  (b) that other person has been granted a subclass 801 visa.
801.322 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the relevant person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that includes the
applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given
and has been accepted by the Minister.
801.323 (1) Subject to subclause (2), the applicant satisfies public
interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant who holds a subclass 820
visa granted on the basis that the applicant met the requirements of clause
820.311 as the dependent child of a person:
  (a) who satisfied the requirements of subclause 820.211 (3), (4) or (5);
and
  (b) who entered Australia as the holder, as a dependent child, of a visa
of the same class as the visa held by that person.
801.324 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
801.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
801.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance when the visa is granted.
801.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
801.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for 4 years from date of grant.
801.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
801.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
801.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 802-CHILD
802.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
802.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
802.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
802.211 If the applicant is subject to section 48 of the Act, the
applicant:
  (a) has not been refused a visa or had a visa cancelled under section 501
of the Act; and
  (b) has become a dependent child of an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen since he or she last
applied for a visa.
802.212 The applicant is:
  (a) a dependent child of a person who is an Australian citizen, an
Australian permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) nominated for the grant of the visa by that person.
802.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
802.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 802.212.
802.222 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
802.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004, 4007
and 4008.
802.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 802 visa satisfies public interest criteria 4001
to4004, 4007 and 4008.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 802 visa satisfies public interest criteria 4007
and 4008, unless the Minister is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to
require the person to undergo assessment in relation to those criteria.
802.225 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant or a dependent
child of the applicant.
802.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
802.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
802.311 The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who satisfies the
primary criteria in subdivision 802.21.
802.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
802.321 The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who satisfies or has
satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 802.22.
802.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004, 4007
and 4008.
802.323 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the relevant person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that includes the
applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
802.324 If the applicant is a dependent child, the Minister is satisfied
that the grant of the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights
and interests of any person who has custody or guardianship of, or access
to, the applicant.
802.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
802.41 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance, when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
802.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
802.51 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
802.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
802.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
802.7 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 804-AGED PARENT
804.1 INTERPRETATION
804.11 In this Part:
  "adult child", in relation to an applicant, means a child of the
applicant who has turned 18.
(NOTE: "aged parent" and "eligible New Zealand citizen" are defined in
regulation 1.03.)
804.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
804.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
804.211 If the applicant is subject to section 48 of the Act, the
applicant:
  (a) has not been refused a visa or had a visa cancelled under section 501
of the Act; and
  (b) has become an aged parent of an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen since he or she last
applied for a visa.
804.212 The applicant is nominated for the grant of the visa by an adult
child of the applicant who is:
  (a) a settled Australian citizen;
  (b) a settled Australian permanent resident; or
  (c) a settled eligible New Zealand citizen.
804.213 If the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa, the
applicant satisfies Schedule 3 criterion 3002.
804.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
804.221 The applicant is an aged parent of the Australian citizen,
Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen referred to
in clause 804.212.
804.222 The applicant continues to satisfy the criterion in clause 804.212.
804.223 The applicant satisfies the balance of family test.
(NOTE: the balance of family test is set out in regulation 1.05.)
804.224 An assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been
given, and has been accepted by the Minister.
804.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
804.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 804 visa satisfies public interest criteria 4001
to 4006, 4009 and 4010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 804 visa satisfies;
  (a) public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister is
satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to that criteria.
804.227 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, a dependent child of the
applicant.
804.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
804.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
804.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
satisfies or has satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 804.21.
804.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
804.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who satisfies the primary criteria in subdivision 804.22.
804.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
804.323 Either:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to the relevant person who
satisfies the primary criteria, that includes the applicant, has been
given, and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
804.324 If the applicant is a dependent child, the Minister is satisfied
that the grant of the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights
and interests of any person who has custody or guardianship of, or access
to, the applicant.
804.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
804.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: CHARGES: Any applicable charges under the Migration (Health
Services) Charge Act 1991 or the Migration (Delayed Visa Applications) Tax
Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
804.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
804.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for 4 years from the date of grant.
804.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
804.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
804.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 805-SKILLED
805.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
805.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
805.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
805.211 (1) The applicant is not the holder of a Long Stay (Visitor) visa,
a Short Stay (Visitor) visa, a Special Tourist (Visitor) visa, a special
purpose visa or a Special Category (Temporary) visa.
  (2) If the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa:
  (a) the applicant satisfies criteria 6003 and 6005; and
  (b) the last substantive visa held by the applicant was not a Long Stay
(Visitor) visa, a Short Stay (Visitor) visa, a Special Tourist (Visitor)
visa, a special purpose visa or a Special Category (Temporary) visa.
805.212 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3), (4)
, (5), (6), or (7).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she has
held:
  (a) 1 or more visas of 1 of the following classes:
    (i) Business (Temporary);
    (ii) Cultural/Social (Temporary);
    (iii) Educational (Temporary);
    (iv) Family Relationship (Temporary);
    (v)  Supported Dependent (Temporary);
    (vi) Interdependency (Temporary);
    (vii) Sri Lankan (Temporary);
    (viii) Citizens of Former Yugoslavia (Temporary);
    (ix) Change of Circumstance (Temporary); or
  (b) 1 or more Confirmatory (Temporary) visas granted on the basis that the
applicant had applied for a visa of a class listed in paragraph (a), but
needed to travel to Australia before some criteria had been satisfied,
andif he or she subsequently satisfied those criteria;
valid for an aggregate period of more than 12 months, and currently holds a
visa of 1 of those classes.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she has
held:
  (a) 1 or more Group 2.6 (Refugee and Humanitarian (Temporary Entry)) entry
permits under the Migration (1993) Regulations permitting temporary
residence in Australia for a total period of more than 12 months; or
  (b) 1 or more a subclass 443 (Citizen of Former Yugoslavia) or 435 (Sri
Lankan) visas permitting temporary residence in Australia for a total
period of more than 12 months.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she:
    (i) is the holder of a Student (Temporary) visa granted in relation to
an award course at associate diploma level or above completed by the
applicant while he or she was the holder of that visa; and
    (ii) subject to subclause (9), is not an assisted student; or
  (b) he or she
    (i) is the holder of a Group 2.2 (student) entry permit granted under
the Migration (1993) Regulations in relation to a formal course, or a
category A course, completed by the applicant while the holder of that
permit; and
    (ii) is not a category B student for the purposes of the Migration
(1993) Regulations or, subject to subclause (9), an assisted student.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she is
the holder of a Working Holiday (Temporary) visa.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant produces written testimony given by an Australian
citizen, an Australian permanent resident, an eligible New Zealand citizen
or an Australian organisation having a national reputation in relation to a
profession, occupation or other activity as to the applicant's standing in
that profession, occupation or activity; and
  (b) either:
    (i) the applicant:
      (A) has an exceptional record of achievement in that occupation,
profession or activity; and
      (B) would be an asset to the Australian community; and
      (C) would have no difficulty in obtaining employment or in becoming
established independently in Australia in that occupation, profession or
activity; or
    (ii) the applicant has a record of outstanding achievement, and is still
prominent, in the arts or sport.
  (7) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant:
    (i) has an exceptional record of achievement in an occupation,
profession or activity; and
    (ii) would be an asset to the Australian community; and
    (iii) would have no difficulty obtaining employment or becoming
established independently in Australia in that occupation, profession or
activity; or
  (b) the applicant has a record of outstanding achievement, and is still
prominent, in the arts or sport; or
  (c) in the opinion of the Minister, acting on the advice of:
    (i) the Minister responsible for an intelligence or security agency
within the meaning of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act
1979; or
    (ii) the Director-General of Security;
the applicant has provided specialised assistance to the Australian
Government in matters of security.
  (8) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant who is an unlawful
non-citizen if he or she would have satisfied the requirements of that
subclause if the application had been made immediately before he or she
became an unlawful citizen.
  (9) For the purposes of subparagraph (4) (b), "assisted student" does not
include a student granted entry to Australia for the purpose of study or
training under the Subsidised Overseas Students Program.
805.213 (1) If the applicant is not an applicant who meets the requirements
of subclause 805.212 (6) or (7), the applicant satisfies the requirements
of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) has been nominated by an employer in respect of a permanent
appointment in an industry for which there is a labour agreement; and
  (b) has qualifications and experience that are suitable for the position
to be taken by the applicant under the labour agreement; and
  (c) unless exceptional circumstances apply, has not turned 55.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant has been nominated in accordance with regulation 7.10 by
an employer in respect of an appointment in the business of that employer;
and
  (b) the applicant is a highly skilled person within the meaning of
regulation 7.10 in relation to that appointment; and
  (c) unless the appointment is exceptional, the applicant has not turned
55.
805.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
805.221 If the application is based on satisfaction of the criteria in
subclause 805.213 (2) the appointment referred to in subclause 805.213 (2)
        (a) has been approved.
805.222 If the application is based on satisfaction of the criteria in
subclause 805.213 (3):
  (a) the appointment is an approved appointment under regulation 7.10; and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the appointment will provide the
employment referred to in the relevant employer nomination.
805.223 The maximum number of subclass 805 visas granted in the relevant
financial year, as fixed by Gazette Notice, would not be exceeded if the
application were approved.
805.224 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
805.225 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
805.226 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 805 visa is a person who satisfies public interest
criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009 and 4010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 805 visa is a person who:
  (a) satisfies public interest criteria 4001 and 4004; and
  (b) satisfies public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister
is satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
805.227 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights of any person who has custody or guardianship of, or
access to, a dependent child of the applicant.
805.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
805.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
805.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
satisfies the primary criteria in subdivision 805.21.
805.312 If a sponsorship or nomination is required in respect of the person
who satisfies the primary criteria, that sponsorship or nomination includes
a sponsorship or nomination of the applicant.
805.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
805.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 805 visa.
805.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
805.323 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the relevant person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that includes the
applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
805.324 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any other person
who has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
805.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
805.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance, when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
805.5  WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
805.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
805.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
805.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
805.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 806-FAMILY
806.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "aged dependant relative", "special need relative" and "eligible New
Zealand citizen" are defined in regulation 1.03, "orphan relative" in
regulation 1.14, and "remaining relative" in regulation 1.15. There are no
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
806.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
806.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
806.211 (1) If the applicant is subject to section 48 of the Act, the
applicant:
  (a) has not been refused a visa, or had a visa cancelled, under section
501 of the Act; and
  (b) has become an aged dependent relative, an orphan relative, a remaining
relative or a special need relative of an Australian citizen, Australian
permanent resident, or eligible New Zealand citizen, since the last
application for a visa was made.
806.212 The applicant:
  (a) satisfies schedule 3 criterion 3002; and
  (b) either:
    (i) is the holder of a substantive visa (other than a subclass 771
visa); or
    (ii) is not the holder of a substantive visa, and immediately before
ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was not the holder of a subclass 771
visa.
806.213 The applicant is an aged dependent relative, an orphan relative, a
remaining relative or a special need relative of another person who:
  (a) is a settled Australian citizen, a settled Australian permanent
resident or a settled eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) is usually resident in Australia; and
  (c) has nominated the applicant for the grant of the visa.
806.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
806.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the criteria in clause 806.213.
806.222 An assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been
given, and has been accepted by the Minister.
806.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
806.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 806 visa satisfies public interest criteria 4001
to 4006, 4009 and 4010.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 806 visa satisfies:
  (a) public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister is
satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the person to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
806.225 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant or a dependent
child of the applicant.
806.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
members of the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
806.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
806.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
satisfies or has satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 806.21.
806.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
806.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 806 visa.
806.322 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
806.323 Either:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to the relevant person who
satisfies the primary criteria, that includes the applicant, has been given
and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
806.324 If the applicant is a dependent child, the Minister is satisfied
that the grant of the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights
and interests of any person who has custody or guardianship of, or access
to, the applicant.
806.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
806.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance, when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Health Services)
Charge Act 1991 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
806.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
806.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
806.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
806.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
806.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 808-CONFIRMATORY (RESIDENCE)
808.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
808.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
808.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
808.221 The applicant:
  (a) is the holder of a Resident Return (Temporary) visa and satisfies the
Minister that he or she would have satisfied the criteria for the grant of
a Return (Residence) visa at the time he or she was granted the Resident
Return (Temporary) visa; or
  (b) is a person who is the holder of an Emergency (Temporary) visa and:
    (i) either:
      (A) satisfies the remaining criteria, within the meaning of Part 302;
or
      (B) is unable to satisfy those criteria, but is able to substantiate a
claim to be an Australian permanent resident; or
    (ii) is a member of the family unit of a person who:
      (A) is the holder of a subclass 302 visa; and
      (B) has satisfied the primary criteria; or
  (c) is the holder of a Border (Temporary) visa and satisfies the Minister
that he or she would have satisfied the criteria for the grant of a Return
(Residence) visa when he or she was granted the Border (Temporary) visa; or
  (d) is the holder of a Class 301 (Australian requirement) entry permit or
visa granted under the Migration (1993) Regulations and has satisfied the
criteria referred to in paragraph 301.321 (b) of Schedule 2 of those
Regulations.
808.222 In the case of an applicant who is the holder of a subclass 302
(Emergency (Permanent Visa Applicant)) visa, all members of the family unit
of the applicant satisfy the public interest criteria applicable to them.
808.23 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
808.231 In the case of an applicant who is a member of the family unit of a
person referred to in subparagraph 808.221 (b) (ii), the person referred to
in that subparagraph holds a Confirmatory (Residence) visa.
808.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: .All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
808.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
808.41 The applicant must be inside Australia, but not in immigration
clearance when the visa is granted.
808.5 when visa is in effect
808.511 In the case of a visa granted on the basis of:
  (a) satisfaction of paragraph 808.221 (a) or (c)-permanent visa; or
  (b) satisfaction of paragraph 808.221 (b) or (d)-permanent visa permitting
the holder to travel to and enter Australia for a period of 4 years from
the date of grant.
808.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
808.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
808.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 814-INTERDEPENDENCY
814.1 INTERPRETATION
814.11 In this Part:
  "nominator", in relation to an applicant, means the Australian citizen,
Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen who nominated
the applicant for the purposes of the grant of a subclass 814 visa.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
814.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
814.21 (No criteria to be satisfied at time of application)
814.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
814.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3) or
(4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is the holder of a subclass 826 visa; and
  (b) the applicant continues to be nominated for the grant of the subclass
814 visa by the nominator; and
  (c) the applicant has a relationship with the nominator that is
acknowledged by both and involves:
    (i) residing together; and
    (ii) being closely interdependent; and
    (iii) having a continuing commitment to mutual emotional and financial
support; and
  (d) the relationship between the applicant and the nominator is both
genuine and continuing; and
  (e) subject to subclause (5), at least 2 years have passed since the
application was made.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the applicant
is the holder of a subclass 826 visa granted on the basis that the
applicant was a person who satisfied the criteria set out in subclause
826.221 (3).
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) is the holder of a subclass 826 visa; and
  (b) would meet the requirements of subclause (2) except that the
applicant's nominator has died; and
  (c) satisfies the Minister that the relationship was genuine and, had the
nominator not died, would have continued; and
  (d) has developed close business, cultural or personal ties in Australia.
  (5) Nothing in paragraph (2) (e) prevents the Minister from:
  (a) refusing to grant a subclass 814 visa; or
  (b) approving the grant of a subclass 814 visa to an applicant who meets
the requirements of subclause (4) less than 2 years after the application
is made.
814.222 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
814.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
814.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a subclass 814 visa satisfies public interest criteria 4001
to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 814 visa satisfies public interest criteria:
  (a) 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) 4007 to 4008, unless the Minister is satisfied that it would be
unreasonable to require the person to undergo assessment in relation to
those criteria.
814.225 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, a dependent child of the applicant.
814.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
dependent children of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
814.31 (No criteria to be satisfied at time of application)
814.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
814.321 The applicant is the holder of a subclass 445 (Dependent child) or
a subclass 826 (Interdependency) visa granted on the basis that the
applicant was the dependent child of another person who was the holder of a
subclass 826 visa and that other person has been granted a subclass 814
visa.
814.322 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the relevant person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that expressly
includes the applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the
Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
814.323 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
814.324 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
814.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
814.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance when the visa is granted.
814.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
814.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for 4 years from the date of grant.
814.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
814.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
814.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 820-SPOUSE
820.1 INTERPRETATION
820.111 In this Part:
  "court" means a Court of Australia or an external Territory;
  "nominating spouse", in relation to an applicant, means the Australian
citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen who
nominated the applicant as his or her spouse when the application for the
visa was made.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
820.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
820.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
820.211 (1) The applicant:
  (a) is not the holder of a subclass 771 (Transit) visa; and
  (b) meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3), (4) or (5).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is the spouse of an Australian citizen, an Australian
permanent resident, or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (b) the marital relationship between the applicant and the Australian
citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen
referred to in paragraph (a) is both genuine and continuing; and
  (c) the applicant is nominated by that Australian citizen, Australian
permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (d) in the case of an applicant who is not the holder of a substantive
visa:
    (i) either:
      (A) the applicant entered Australia as the holder of a subclass 995
(Diplomatic) visa or as a special purpose visa holder who at the time of
entry met the requirements of subclause (6); and
      (B) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criterion 3002; or
    (ii) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001. 3003 and 3004.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa; and
  (b) the applicant last entered Australia before 19 December 1989; and
  (c) at the time the applicant entered Australia, he or she was engaged to
be married to an Australian citizen or an Australian permanent resident;
and
  (d) the applicant has married that Australian citizen, Australian
permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen; and
  (e) the marital relationship between the applicant and that Australian
citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen is
both genuine and continuing; and
  (f) the applicant is nominated by that Australian citizen, Australian
permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa; and
  (b) the applicant last entered Australia on or after 19 December 1989 as
the holder of a Subclass 300 (Prospective Marriage (Temporary)) visa that
authorised a stay in Australia of 3 months; and
  (c) the applicant has married the Australian citizen, Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen whom the applicant entered
Australia to marry; and
  (d) the applicant ceased to hold a substantive visa before marrying that
Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand
citizen; and
  (e) the marital relationship between the applicant and that Australian
citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen is
both genuine and continuing; and
  (f) the applicant is nominated by that Australian citizen, Australian
permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is not the holder of a substantive visa; and
  (b) the applicant last entered Australia on or after 19 December 1989 as
the holder of a prospective marriage (temporary) visa; and
  (c) the applicant has married the Australian citizen, Australian permanent
resident or eligible New Zealand citizen whom the applicant entered
Australia to marry; and
  (d) the applicant ceased to hold a substantive visa after marrying that
Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand
citizen; and
  (e) the marital relationship between the applicant and that Australian
citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen is
both genuine and continuing; and
  (f) the applicant is nominated by that Australian citizen, Australian
permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen.
  (6) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she is:
    (i) a SOFA member; or
    (ii) a SOFA forces civilian component member; or
  (b) he or she:
    (i) is a dependent child of a person referred to in paragraph (a); and
    (ii) holds a valid national passport and certificate that he or she is a
dependant of a SOFA forces member or a SOFA forces civilian component
member, as the case requires.
(NOTE: "SOFA forces member" and "SOFA forces civilian component member" are
defined in regulation I.X. Broadly, a SOFA forces member is a member of the
armed forces of Papua New Guinea, Singapore or the United States of America
in Australia on official duty. A SOFA forces civilian component member is a
person who is a member of the civilian component of one of those armed
forces, in Australia on official duty.)
820.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
820.221 (1) In the case of an applicant referred to in subclause 820.211
(2), (3), (4) or (5), the applicant either:
  (a) continues to meet the requirements of the applicable subclause; or
  (b) meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) would continue to meet the requirements of subclause 820.211 (2), (3),
(4) or (5) except that the applicant's spouse has died; and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that the marital relationship was genuine and
would have continued if the applicant's spouse had not died; and
  (c) has developed close business, cultural or personal ties in Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if the
applicant:
  (a) would continue to meet the requirements of subclause 820.211 (2), (3),
(4) or (5) except that the marital relationship is no longer continuing;
and
  (b) one or more of the following circumstances applies:
    (i) on the application of the applicant, a court has granted an
injunction under paragraph 114 (1) (a), (b) or (c) of the Family Law Act
1975 against the nominating spouse;
    (ii) a court has made an order under a law of a State or Territory
against the nominating spouse for the protection of the applicant from
domestic violence;
    (iii) a court has convicted the nominating spouse of, or has recorded a
finding of guilt against the nominating spouse in respect of, assault or
some other offence of violence against the applicant;
    (iv) the applicant has custody or joint custody of at least 1 child in
respect of whom:
      (A) a court has granted joint custody, or access, in favour of the
nominating spouse; or
      (B) the nominating spouse is subject to a formal maintenance
obligation.
820.222 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
820.223 (1) Subject to subclause (2), the applicant satisfies public
interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant referred to in subclause
820.211 (3), (4) or (5).
820.224 (1) Subject to subclause (2), each member of the family unit of the
applicant:
  (a) who is an applicant for an subclass 820 visa satisfies public interest
criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009; and
  (b) who is not an applicant for a subclass 820 visa satisfies public
interest criteria
    (i) 4001 to 4004; and
    (ii) 4007 to 4008, unless the Minister is satisfied that it would be
unreasonable to require the person to undergo assessment in relation to
those criteria.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant:
  (a) who is a dependent child of an applicant referred to in subclause
820.211 (3), (4) or (5); and
  (b) who entered Australia as the holder of a visa of the same class as the
visa held by that other applicant.
820.225 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, a dependent child of the
applicant.
820.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
dependent children of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
820.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
820.311 The applicant is a dependent child of a person who satisfies or has
satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 820.21, and the nomination in
respect of that person includes the applicant.
820.312 In the case of an applicant who is not the holder of a substantive
visa:
  (a) either:
    (i) the applicant entered Australia as the holder of a subclass 995
(Diplomatic) visa or as a special purpose visa holder who at the time of
entry met the requirements of subclause 820.211 (6); and
    (ii) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criterion 3002; or
  (b) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003 and 3004.
820.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
820.321 In the case of an applicant referred to in subclause 820.311, the
person on whom the applicant is dependent has satisfied the primary
criteria and is the holder of a subclass 820 visa.
820.322 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the relevant person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that includes the
applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
820.323 (1) Subject to subclause (2), the applicant satisfies public
interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
  (2) Subclause (1) does not apply to an applicant referred to in subclause
820.311 who:
  (a) is a dependent child of another applicant referred to in subclause
820.211 (3), (4) or (5); and
  (b) entered Australia as the holder of a visa of the same class as the
visa held by that other applicant.
820.324 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
820.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
820.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance, when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
820.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
820.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia until:
  (a) the holder is notified that his or her application for a subclass 801
(Spouse) visa has been decided; or
  (b) that application is withdrawn.
820.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
820.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
820.711 Evidence is not required to be provided except upon request by the
visa holder, in which case evidence will be by visa label attached to a
passport.
SUBCLASS 826-INTERDEPENDENCY
826.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. There
are no interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
826.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
826.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
826.211 (1) The applicant is not the holder of a subclass 771(Transit)
visa.
  (2) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant has turned 18; and
  (b) the applicant is nominated for the grant of the visa by a person who
is an Australian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New
Zealand citizen (in this clause called "the nominator"); and
  (c) the nominator is not a member of the family unit, or otherwise a
relative, of the applicant; and
  (d) the applicant has a relationship with the nominator that is
acknowledged by both parties and that involves:
    (i) residing together; and
    (ii) being closely interdependent; and
    (iii) having a continuing commitment to mutual emotional and financial
support; and
  (e) the Minister is satisfied that:
    (i) subject to subclause (3), the relationship referred to in paragraph
        (d) has existed for a period of at least 6 months; or
    (ii) if the applicant is the holder, as a person who satisfies the
primary criteria, of a Subclass 305 (interdependency (temporary)) visa,
that the relationship referred to in paragraph (d) is the same relationship
that satisfied a criterion for the grant of that visa; and
  (f) the Minister is satisfied that the relationship between the applicant
and the nominator is both genuine and continuing; and
  (g) in the case of an applicant who is not the holder of a substantive
visa:
    (i) either:
      (A) the applicant entered Australia as the holder of a subclass 995
(Diplomatic) visa or as a special purpose visa holder who satisfies the
requirements of subclause (4); and
      (B) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criterion 3002; or
    (ii) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003 and 3004.
  (3) For the purposes of subparagraph (2) (e) (i), the Minister may, on
written application, specify a period of less than 6 months if the Minister
is satisfied that:
  (a) there are exceptional circumstances affecting the applicant and the
nominator; and
  (b) there are compelling reasons for specifying the lesser period.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) he or she is:
    (i) a SOFA forces member; or
    (ii) a SOFA forces civilian component member; or
  (b) he or she:
    (i) is a dependent child of a person referred to in paragraph (a); and
    (ii) holds a valid national passport and a certificate that he or she is
a dependent of a SOFA forces member or a SOFA forces civilian component
member, as the case requires.
(NOTE: "SOFA forces member" and "SOFA forces civilian component member" are
defined in regulation I.X. Broadly, a SOFA forces member is a member of the
armed forces of Papua New Guinea, Singapore or the United States of America
in Australia on official duty. A SOFA forces civilian component member is a
person who is a member of the civilian component of one of those armed
forces, in Australia on official duty.)
826.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
826.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2) or (3).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she
continues to meet the requirements in clause 826.211 (2).
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she:
  (a) would continue to meet the requirements specified in clause 826.211
(2) except that the nominator in relation to the applicant has died; and
  (b) satisfies the Minister that the relationship was genuine and would
have continued if the nominator had not died; and
  (c) has developed close business, cultural or personal ties in Australia.
826.222 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
826.223 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
826.224 (1) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an
applicant for a Subclass 826 (interdependency (temporary)) visa satisfies
public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and 4007 to 4009.
  (2) Each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a Subclass 826 (interdependency (temporary)) visa satisfies
public interest criteria:
  (a) 4001 to 4004; and
  (b) 4007 and 4008, unless the Minister is satisfied that it would be
unreasonable to require the person to undergo assessment in relation to
those criteria.
826.225 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would not
prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to, a dependent child of the applicant.
826.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are
dependent children of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
826.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
826.311 An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is a dependent child of a person who satisfies or has
satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 826.21; and
  (b) the nomination in respect of that person includes the applicant.
826.312 In the case of an applicant who is not the holder of a substantive
visa:
  (a) either:
    (i) the applicant entered Australia as the holder of a subclass 995
(Diplomatic) visa or as a special purpose visa holder who at the time of
entry met the requirements of subclause 826.211 (4); and
    (ii) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criterion 3002; or
  (b) he or she satisfies Schedule 3 criteria 3001, 3003 and 3004.
826.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
826.321 In the case of an applicant referred to in sub-clause 826.311, the
person on whom the applicant is dependent has satisfied the primary
criteria and is the holder of a subclass 826 visa.
826.322 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
826.323 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the relevant person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that expressly
includes the applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the
Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
826.324 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004 and
4007 to 4009.
826.325 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of a visa to the applicant
would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who has
guardianship or custody of, or access to, the applicant.
826.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
826.411 The applicant must be in Australia but not in immigration clearance
when the visa is granted.
826.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
826.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia until:
  (a) he or she is notified that his or her application for a subclass 814
visa has been decided; or
  (b) that application is withdrawn.
826.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
826.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
826.711 Evidence is not required to be provided except upon request by the
visa holder, in which case evidence will be by visa label attached to a
valid passport.
SUBCLASS 831-PROSPECTIVE MARRIAGE SPOUSE
831.1 INTERPRETATION
831.111 In this Part:
  "nominating spouse", in relation to an applicant, means the Australian
citizen, Australian permanent resident, or eligible New Zealand citizen who
was specified in the applicant's application for the subclass 300
(prospective marriage) visa as the person whom the applicant intended to
marry after entry to Australia.
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03.)
831.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
831.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
831.211 The applicant is the holder of a subclass 300 (prospective
marriage) visa, and:
  (a) the applicant has married the nominating spouse; and
  (b) the marital relationship between the applicant and the nominating
spouse is a genuine and continuing relationship; and
  (c) the applicant is nominated by the nominating spouse.
831.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
831.221 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3), or
(4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant satisfied the requirements of clause 831.211 at the time
of application; and
  (b) the marital relationship between the applicant and the nominating
spouse is a genuine and continuing relationship; and
  (c) the applicant continues to be nominated by the nominating spouse.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant satisfied the requirements of clause 831.211 at the time
of application; and
  (b) the nominating spouse has died; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the marital relationship
between the applicant and the nominating spouse was genuine, and would have
continued if the nominating spouse had not died; and
  (d) the applicant has developed close business, cultural or personal ties
in Australia.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant satisfied the requirements of clause 831.211 at the time
of application; and
  (b) the marital relationship has ceased; and
  (c) the applicant satisfies the Minister that the marital relationship was
genuine and would have continued to be genuine had it not ceased; and
  (d) one or more of the following circumstances applies:
    (i) on the application of the applicant, a court has granted an
injunction under paragraph 114 (1) (a), (b) or (c) of the Family Law Act
1975 against the nominating spouse;
    (ii) a court has made an order under a law of a State or Territory
against the nominating spouse for the protection of the applicant from
domestic violence;
    (iii) a court has convicted the nominating spouse of, or has recorded a
finding of guilt against the nominating spouse in respect of, assault or
some other offence of violence against the applicant;
    (iv) the applicant has custody or joint custody of at least 1 child in
respect of whom:
      (A) a court has granted joint custody or access to the nominating
spouse; or
      (B) the nominating spouse is subject to a formal maintenance
obligation.
831.222 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
831.223 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, a dependent child of the
applicant.
831.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
831.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
831.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
satisfies or has satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 831.21.
831.312 The applicant is the holder of a subclass 300 (Prospective
marriage) visa as a member of the family unit of a person who, having
satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a subclass 300
(Prospective marriage) visa.
831.313 The nomination in respect of the person who satisfies or has
satisfied the primary criteria includes the applicant.
831.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
831.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 831 visa.
831.322 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that includes the
applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
831.323 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to, the applicant.
831.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
831.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance, when the visa is granted.
831.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
831.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
831.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
831.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
831.71 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 832-CLOSE TIES
832.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: "eligible New Zealand citizen" is defined in regulation 1.03. No
interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
832.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
832.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
832.211 The applicant:
  (a) is the holder of a substantive visa, other than a subclass 771
(Transit) visa; or
  (b) is not the holder of a substantive visa, and immediately before
ceasing to hold a substantive visa, was not the holder of a subclass 771
(Transit) visa.
832.212 (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3), (4)
or (5).
  (2) A person meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she last
entered Australia before 1 January 1975.
  (3) A person meets the requirements of this subclause if the person:
  (a) last entered Australia as:
    (i) the holder of a conditional resident return visa granted before 19
December 1989; or
    (ii) the holder of a return visa, Class A, B, C, D, or E granted before
10 December 1990 in the circumstance that, when applying for the visa, the
holder:
      (A) claimed to have been an Australian permanent resident immediately
before going overseas; and
      (B) was unable to provide satisfactory evidence to substantiate that
claim; and
      (C) satisfied the Minister that the holder had urgent and compelling
reasons for travelling to Australia before the claim could be
substantiated; or
    (iii) the holder of a subclass 159 (resident return) visa; or
    (iv) the holder of a subclass 773 (Border) visa; and
  (b) at any time within 5 years before being granted that visa, was an
Australian permanent resident and subsequently ceased to hold a substantive
visa.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirement of this subclause if the applicant:
  (a) has turned 18; and
  (b) ceased to hold a substantive visa before turning 18; and
  (c) before turning 18, spent the greater part of the period that the
Minister regards as the applicant's formative years in Australia.
  (5) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if he or she
satisfies:
  (a) Schedule 3 criterion 3002, and
  (b) the criteria set out in:
    (i) subdivisions 150.21 and 150.22; or
    (ii) subdivision 151.21; or
    (iii) subdivision 152.21.
832.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
832.221(1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3) or
(4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is an applicant referred to in subclause 832.212 (2) or
(3); and
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant has developed close
personal ties with Australia.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant is an applicant referred to in subclause 832.212 (4);
and
  (b) the applicant is not a member of, and does not reside with, the family
unit (if any), with which the applicant first entered Australia.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if:
  (a) the applicant satisfies the requirements of subclause 832.212 (5);
and,
  (b) the applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006, 4009
and 4010.
832.222 If the applicant meets the requirements of subclause 832.212 (5):
  (a) each member of the family unit of the applicant who is an applicant
for a subclass 832 visa satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4006 and
4009 and 4010;
  (b) each member of the family unit of the applicant who is not an
applicant for a subclass 832 visa satisfies:
    (i) public interest criteria 4001 to 4004; and
    (ii) public interest criteria 4005 and 4006, unless the Minister is
satisfied that it would be unreasonable to require the applicant to undergo
assessment in relation to those criteria.
832.223 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights and interests of any person who
has custody or guardianship of, or access to the applicant or a dependent
child of the applicant.
832.224 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
832.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: These criteria must be satisfied by applicants who are members of
the family unit of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
832.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
832.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
satisfies or has satisfied the primary criteria in subdivision 832.21.
832.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
832.321 The applicant continues to be a member of the family unit of a
person who, having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a
subclass 832 visa.
832.322 If the applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
meets the requirements of subclause 832.221(5), the applicant satisfies
public interest criteria 4001 to 4006 and 4009 and 4010.
832.323 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person,  that includes the
applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
832.324 If the applicant is a dependent child, the Minister is satisfied
that the grant of the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights
and interests of any other person who has custody or guardianship of, or
access to, the applicant.
832.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
832.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance, when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: Any applicable charge under the Migration (Delayed Visa
Applications) Tax Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
832.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
832.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from date of grant.
832.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
832.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
832.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 833-CERTAIN UNLAWFUL NON-CITIZENS
833.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
833.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The primary criteria must be satisfied by at least one member of a
family unit. The other members of the family unit who are applicants for a
visa of this subclass need satisfy only the secondary criteria.)
833.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
833.211 If the applicant is subject to section 48 of the Act, he or she:
  (a) has not been refused a visa, or had a visa cancelled, under section
501 of the Act; and
  (b) has, since he or she last applied for a visa, become a person who
meets the requirements of clause 833.212.
833.212 An applicant meets the requirement of this subclause if he or she:
  (a) has turned 18; and
  (b) before turning 18, ceased to hold a substantive visa; and
  (c) immediately before ceasing to hold a substantive visa, did not hold a
subclass 771 (Transit) visa; and
  (d) before turning 18, spent the greater part of the period that the
Minister regards as the applicant's formative years in Australia.
833.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
833.221 The applicant is not a member of, and does not reside with, the
family unit (if any), with which the applicant first entered Australia.
833.222 If so requested by the Minister, an assurance of support in
relation to the applicant has been given, and has been accepted by the
Minister.
833.223 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa to the
applicant would not prejudice the rights of any person who has custody or
guardianship of, or access to the applicant or a dependent child of the
applicant.
833.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: The secondary criteria must  be met by applicants who are family
unit members of a person who satisfies the primary criteria.)
833.31 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
833.311 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who
satisfies or has satisfied the primary criteria at 833.21.
833.32 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
833.321 The applicant is a member of the family unit of a person who,
having satisfied the primary criteria, is the holder of a subclass 833
visa.
833.322 If an assurance of support has been requested by the Minister in
relation to the person who satisfies the primary criteria:
  (a) an assurance of support in relation to that person, that includes the
applicant, has been given and has been accepted by the Minister; or
  (b) an assurance of support in relation to the applicant has been given,
and has been accepted by the Minister.
833.323 If the applicant is a dependent child, the Minister is satisfied
that the grant of the visa to the applicant would not prejudice the rights
and interests of any other person who has custody of, or access to, the
applicant.
833.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
833.411 The applicant must be in Australia, but not in immigration
clearance, when the visa is granted.
(NOTE: Charges: any applicable charges under the Migration (Health
Services) Charge Act 1991 or the Migration (Delayed Visa Applications) Tax
Act 1992 must be paid before the visa can be granted.)
833.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
833.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel to and enter
Australia for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
833.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
833.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
833.711 Visa label affixed to a passport.
SUBCLASS 834-PERMANENT RESIDENT OF NORFOLK ISLAND
834.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
834.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
834.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
834.211 The applicant is a permanent resident of Norfolk Island and holds,
and has shown an officer, a passport that is in force and is endorsed with
an authority to reside indefinitely on Norfolk Island.
834.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
834.221 The applicant continues to satisfy the requirements set out in
clause 834.211.
834.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
834.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
834.411 At the time of grant the applicant must be in Australia and in
immigration clearance.
834.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
834.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to remain in Australia
indefinitely.
834.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
834.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
834.711 A port and date stamp placed in the passport of the applicant.
SUBCLASS 866-PROTECTION (RESIDENCE)
866.1 INTERPRETATION
866.111 In this Part:
  "Refugees Convention" means the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of
Refugees as amended by the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of
Refugees.
866.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
866.21 Criteria to be satisfied at time of application
866.211 The applicant claims to be a person to whom Australia has
protection obligations under the Refugees Convention and:
  (a) makes specific claims under the Refugees Convention; or
  (b) claims to be a member of the family unit of a person who:
    (i) has made specific claims under the Refugees Convention; and
    (ii) is an applicant for a Protection (Class AZ) visa.
866.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision
866.221 The Minister is satisfied the applicant is a person to whom
Australia has protection obligations under the Refugees Convention.
866.222 In the case of an applicant referred to in paragraph 866.211 (b):
  (a) the Minister is satisfied that the applicant is a member of the family
unit of a person who has made specific claims under the Refugees
Convention; and
  (b) the person of whose family unit the applicant is a member has been
granted a Protection (Residence) visa.
866.223 The applicant has undergone a medical examination carried out by a
Commonwealth medical officer.
866.224 The applicant:
  (a) has undergone a chest x-ray examination conducted by a medical
practitioner who is qualified as a radiologist in Australia; or
  (b) is under 16 years of age and is not a person in respect of whom a
Commonwealth medical officer has requested such an examination.
866.225 The applicant satisfies public interest criteria 4001 to 4004.
866.226 The Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa is in the
national interest.
866.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
866.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
866.411 The applicant must be in Australiathe migration zone.
866.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
866.511 Permanent visa permitting the holder to travel and enter Australia
for a period of 4 years from the date of grant.
866.6 CONDITIONS: Nil.
866.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
866.711 Visa label affixed to a Convention travel document or passport.
SUBCLASS 995-DIPLOMATIC (TEMPORARY)
995.1 INTERPRETATION
(NOTE: No interpretation provisions specific to this Part.)
995.2 PRIMARY CRITERIA
(NOTE: All applicants must satisfy the primary criteria.)
995.21 (No criteria to be satisfied at time of application)
995.22 Criteria to be satisfied at time of decision.
995.221 The Foreign Minister has recommended in writing to the Minister
that the visa be granted to the applicant.
995.3 SECONDARY CRITERIA: Nil.
(NOTE: All applicants must meet the primary criteria.)
995.4 CIRCUMSTANCES APPLICABLE TO GRANT
995.411 Applicant may be in the migration zone or outside Australia.
995.5 WHEN VISA IS IN EFFECT
995.511 Temporary visa permitting the holder:
  (a) to travel to and enter Australia until a date specified by the
Minister for the purpose; and
  (b) to remain in Australia for the duration of the holder's status as a
diplomatic or consular representative in Australia of a country other than
Australia..
995.6 CONDITIONS
995.611 Nil.
995.7 WAY OF GIVING EVIDENCE
995.711 Visa label affixed to valid passport.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 3


                            SCHEDULE 3                Regulation 1.03
       ADDITIONAL CRITERIA APPLICABLE TO UNLAWFUL NON-CITIZENS AND
                   CERTAIN BRIDGING VISA HOLDERS
  3001. If the applicant ceased to be the holder of a substantive visa and
whether clause 6002 in Schedule 6 of the Migration (1993) Regulations
applied, or section 195 of the Act applies, to the applicant or not, the
application is validly made within 28 days after that substantive visa
ceased to be in effect.
  3002. If the applicant ceased to be the holder of a substantive visa and
whether clause 6002 in Schedule 6 of the Migration (1993) Regulations
applied, or section 195 of the Act applies, to the applicant or not, the
application is validly made within 12 months after that substantive visa
ceased to be in effect.
  3003. (1) If:
  (a) at some time before 1 September 1994 the applicant held an entry
permit that expired before that date; and
  (b) the applicant became an illegal entrant at some time before that date;
and
  (b) that entry permit was not granted subject to a condition that the
applicant would not be granted another entry permit while he or she
remained in Australia;
the Minister is satisfied that:
  (c) the applicant became an illegal entrant because of factors beyond the
applicant's control; and
  (d) there are compelling reasons for granting the visa; and
  (e) the applicant complied substantially with any conditions subject to
which the entry permit was granted (other than a condition of which the
applicant was in breach solely because of the expiry of the entry permit);
and
  (f) the applicant would have been entitled to be granted an entry permit
equivalent to a visa of the class applied for if the applicant had applied
for the entry permit immediately before becoming an illegal entrant; and
  (g) the applicant intends to comply with any condition subject to which
the visa is granted.
  3004. (1) If:
  (b) the applicant ceased to hold a substantive visa on or after 1
September 1994; and
  (b) the visa was not subject to a condition that the applicant would not
be granted another substantive visa (other than a protection visa) while he
or she remained in Australia;
the Minister is satisfied that:
  (c) the applicant ceased to hold a substantive visa because of factors
beyond the applicant's control; and
  (d) there are compelling reasons for granting the visa; and
  (e) the applicant complied substantially with any conditions subject to
which the visa was granted (other than a condition of which the applicant
was in breach solely because the visa ceased); and
  (f) the applicant would have been entitled to be granted a visa of the
class applied for if the applicant had applied for the visa immediately
before ceasing to hold a substantive visa; and
  (g) the applicant intends to comply with any condition subject to which
the visa is granted.
  3005. A visa or entry permit has not previously been granted to the
applicant on the basis of the satisfaction of any of the criteria set out
in:
  (a) this Schedule; or
  (b) Schedule 6 of the Migration (1993) Regulations; or
  (c) regulation 35AA or subregulation 42 (1A) or (1C) of the Migration
(1989) Regulations.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 4


                            SCHEDULE 4             Regulation 1.03
                     PUBLIC INTEREST CRITERIA
  4001. (1) The applicant meets the requirements of subclause (2), (3) or
(4).
  (2) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if, after
appropriate enquiries, the Minister has decided that there is no evidence
of anything that might justify refusal, under section 501 of the Act, to
grant the visa.
  (3) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if, after
appropriate enquiries and consideration of all available evidence of
anything that might justify refusal, under section 501 of the Act, to grant
the visa, the Minister has decided that that evidence is insufficient to
satisfy the Minister of any of the matters referred to in paragraph (1) (b)
and subsection (2) of that section.
  (4) An applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if, despite
being satisfied that refusal, under section 501 of the Act, to grant the
visa is justified, the Minister has decided not to exercise the power under
that section to refuse to grant the visa.
  4002. The applicant is not assessed by the competent Australian
authorities to be directly or indirectly a risk to Australian national
security.
  4003. The applicant is not determined by the Foreign Minister to be a
person whose presence in Australia would prejudice relations between
Australia and a foreign country.
  4004. The applicant does not have outstanding debts to the Commonwealth
unless the Minister is satisfied that appropriate arrangements have been
made for payment.
  4005. The applicant:
  (a) both:
    (i) is free from tuberculosis or any other communicable disease of a
fatal or serious nature that, in the opinion of a Commonwealth medical
officer, is a threat to public health in Australia, and is not suspected of
having contracted such a disease; and
    (ii) if the applicant is a person from whom a Commonwealth medical
officer has requested a signed undertaking to present himself or herself to
a health authority in the State or Territory of intended residence in
Australia for a follow-up medical examination, has provided such an
undertaking; and
  (b) is free from any other disease or condition that, in the opinion of a
Commonwealth medical officer, would be a danger to members of the
Australian community; and
  (c) is free of any disease or condition that, during the applicant's
proposed period of stay in Australia, would, in the opinion of a
Commonwealth medical officer:
    (i) require significant care or significant treatment (or both); or
    (ii) require care or treatment (or both) involving the use of community
resources in short supply; or
    (iii) prevent the applicant from pursuing the applicant's intended
occupation (if any) in Australia; or
    (iv) result in the applicant becoming a significant charge on public
funds.
  4006. The applicant has been found to be free from any disease or
condition that, if offspring were produced, would, in the opinion of a
Commonwealth medical officer, result in the offspring being affected by a
disease or condition referred to in clause 4005.
  4007. (1) Subject to subclause (2), the applicant:
  (a) both:
    (i) is free from tuberculosis or any other communicable disease of a
fatal or serious nature that, in the opinion of a Commonwealth medical
officer, is a threat to public health in Australia, and is not suspected of
having contracted such a disease; and
    (ii) if the applicant is a person from whom a Commonwealth medical
officer has requested a signed undertaking to present himself or herself to
a health authority in the State or Territory of intended residence in
Australia for a follow-up medical examination, has provided such an
undertaking; and
  (b) is free from any other disease or condition that, in the opinion of a
Commonwealth medical officer, would be a danger to members of the
Australian community; and
  (c) is free of any disease or condition that, during the applicant's
proposed period of stay in Australia, would, in the opinion of a
Commonwealth medical officer:
    (i) require significant care or significant treatment (or both); or
    (ii) require care or treatment (or both) involving the use of community
resources in short supply; or
    (iii) prevent the applicant from pursuing the applicant's intended
occupation (if any) in Australia; or
    (iv) result in the applicant becoming a significant charge on public
funds.
  (2) The Minister may waive the requirements of subclause (1) if:
  (a) the applicant satisfies all other criteria for the grant of the visa
applied for (other than public interest criterion 4008, if applicable); and
  (b) a Commonwealth medical officer has formed the opinion that the
applicant:
    (i) is free of tuberculosis and other communicable diseases of a fatal
or serious nature that are a threat to public health in Australia; and
    (ii) is free of other diseases and conditions that are a danger to
members of the Australian community; and
    (iii) is free of diseases and conditions that are likely to result in
offspring being produced with a disease or condition referred to in
subparagraph (i) or (ii); and
    (iv) is unlikely, as a result of a disease or condition, to prejudice
the access to health care of any Australian citizen or Australian permanent
resident; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that undue harm or undue cost would be
unlikely to result to the Australian community if the visa was granted.
  4008. (1) Subject to subclause (2), the applicant has been found to be
free from any disease or condition that, if offspring were produced, would,
in the opinion of a Commonwealth medical officer, result in offspring
affected by a disease or condition referred to in clause 4007.
  (2) The Minister may waive the requirements of subclause (1) if:
  (a) the applicant satisfies all other criteria for the grant of the visa
applied for (other than public interest criterion 4007); and
  (b) a Commonwealth medical officer has formed the opinion that the
applicant:
    (i) is free of tuberculosis and other communicable diseases of a fatal
or serious nature that are a threat to public health in Australia; and
    (ii) is free of other diseases and conditions that are a danger to
members of the Australian community; and
    (iii) is free of diseases and conditions that are likely to result in
offspring being produced with a disease or condition referred to in
subparagraph (i) or (ii); and
    (iv) is unlikely, as a result of a disease or condition, to prejudice
the access to health care of any Australian citizen or Australian permanent
resident; and
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that undue harm or undue cost would be
unlikely to result to the Australian community if the visa was granted.
  4009. The applicant:
  (a) intends to live permanently in Australia; and
  (b) if the applicant seeks entry to Australia as a member of a family
unit, also satisfies the Minister that the applicant could obtain support
in Australia from other members of the family unit.
  4010. If the applicant seeks to remain in Australia permanently, or
temporarily for longer than 12 months, the applicant is likely to become
established in Australia without undue personal difficulty and without
imposing undue difficulties or costs on the Australian community.
  4011. (1) If the applicant is affected by the risk factor specified in
subclause (2), the applicant satisfies the Minister that, having regard to
the applicant's circumstances in the applicant's country of usual
residence, there is very little likelihood that the applicant will remain
after the expiry of any period during that the applicant might be
authorised to remain after entry.
  (2) An applicant is affected by the risk factor referred to in subclause
(1) if:
  (a) during the period of 5 years immediately preceding the application,
the applicant has applied for a visa or entry permit for the purpose of
permanent residence in Australia; or
  (b) the applicant has one or more relevant characteristics in common with
a class of persons shown by statistics prepared by the Secretary from the
movement records kept by Immigration to be persons who have remained in
Australia after the expiry of the respective periods of time during that
they were authorised to remain in Australia.
  (3) For the purposes of subclause (2), a relevant characteristic is any of
the following characteristics:
  (a) nationality;
  (b) marital status;
  (c) age;
  (d) sex;
  (e) occupation;
  (f) the class of visa currently applied for;
  (g) the place of lodgment or posting of the application for that visa.
  4012. In the case of an applicant:
  (a) who has not turned 18; and
  (b) who is not travelling, or intending to travel, to Australia under the
visa in the company of either or both of his or her parents or guardians;
and
  (c) whose application expresses an intention to visit a person in
Australia who is not a relative of the applicant; and
  (d) who is not travelling as a part of an organised tour and for whom no
adequate maintenance and support arrangements have been made for the total
period of stay in Australia;
an undertaking to provide accommodation for, and to be responsible for the
support and general welfare of, the applicant during the applicant's stay
in Australia is given to the Minister by a person who, in the reasonable
belief of the Minister, is of good character.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 5


                            SCHEDULE 5             Regulation 1.03
                     SPECIAL RETURN CRITERIA
  5001. The applicant is not a person who left Australia while the subject
of a deportation order under:
  (a) section 200 of the Act; or
  (b) section 55, 56 or 57 of the Act as in force on and after 19 December
1989 but before 1 September 1994; or
  (c) section 12, 13 or 14 of the Act as in force before 19 December 1989.
  5002. If the applicant is a person who has been:
  (a) removed from Australia under section 198, 199 or 205 of the Act; or
  (b) deported from Australia before 1 September 1994 otherwise than under:
    (i) section 55, 56 or 57 of the Act as in force on and after 19
December 1989 and before 1 September 1994; or
    (ii) section 12, 13 or 14 of the Act as in force before 19 December
1989;
then:
  (c) the application is made more than 30 months after the removal or
deportation; or
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraph (c).
  5003. If the applicant is a person who has been:
  (a) removed from Australia under section 198, 199 or 205 of the Act; or
  (b) deported from Australia before 1 September 1994 otherwise than under:
    (i) section 55, 56 or 57 of the Act as in force on and after 19
December 1989 and before 1 September 1994; or
    (ii) section 12, 13 or 14 of the Act as in force before 19 December
1989;
then:
  (c) the application is made more than 5 years after the removal or
deportation; or
  (d) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraph (c).
  5004. (1) If the applicant is a person who has left Australia (otherwise
than as a removee or deportee) following:
  (a) compliance action by Immigration resulting in the detection of the
whereabouts of the person, being an unlawful non-citizen, illegal entrant
or prohibited non-citizen; or
  (b) cancellation of a visa in the circumstances set out in subclause (2);
or
  (c) the cancellation, as the result of the person being found by
Immigration to have worked without authority:
    (i) under section 35 of the Act as in force before 1 September 1994, of
a temporary entry permit held by the person; or
    (ii)  under section 116 of the Act, of a visa held by the person; or
  (d) a determination by the Minister before 1 September 1994 that the
person had failed to comply with a terminating condition to which a
temporary entry permit held by the person was subject, with the result that
that entry permit ceased to be in force;
either:
  (e) the application is made more than 12 months after the departure of
the person from Australia; or
  (f) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraph (e).
  (2) The circumstances referred to in paragraph (1) (b) are:
  (a) that:
    (i) the person held a visa of a subclass listed by number in column 2
and by title in column 3 of an item in the Table at the end of this
Schedule; and
    (ii) the visa was cancelled under section 116 of the Act because the
person did not comply with a condition listed in column 4 of that item; or
  (b) that:
    (i) the person held a Subclass 773 (Border) visa; and
    (ii) at the time of grant of that visa, the person was apparently
eligible for a substantive visa of a subclass listed in the Table; and
    (iii) the Subclass 773 visa was cancelled on the ground that the person
had failed to comply with a condition listed in Column 4 of the item in the
Table that relates to that subclass of substantive visa.
  5005. (1) If the applicant is a person who has left Australia (otherwise
than as a removee or deportee) following:
  (a) compliance action by Immigration resulting in the detection of the
whereabouts of the person, being an unlawful non-citizen, illegal entrant
or prohibited non-citizen; or
  (b) cancellation of a visa in the circumstances set out in subclause (2);
or
  (c) the cancellation, as the result of the person being found by
Immigration to have worked without authority:
    (i) under section 35 of the Act as in force before 1 September 1994, of
a temporary entry permit held by the person; or
    (ii)  under section 116 of the Act, of a visa held by the person; or
  (d) a determination by the Minister before 1 September 1994 that the
person had failed to comply with a terminating condition to which a
temporary entry permit held by the person was subject, with the result that
that entry permit ceased to be in force;
either:
  (e) the application is made more than 3 years after the departure of the
person from Australia; or
  (f) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraph (e).
  (2) The circumstances referred to in paragraph (1) (b) are:
  (a) that:
    (i) the person held a visa of a subclass listed by number in column 2
and by title in column 3 of an item in the Table at the end of this
Schedule; and
    (ii) the visa was cancelled under section 116 of the Act because the
person did not comply with a condition listed in column 4 of that item; or
  (b) that:
    (i) the person held a Subclass 773 (Border) visa; and
    (i) at the time of grant of that visa, the person was apparently
eligible for a substantive visa of a subclass listed in the Table; and
    (iii) the Subclass 773 visa was cancelled on the ground that the person
had failed to comply with a condition listed in Column 4 of the item in the
Table that relates to that subclass of substantive visa.
  5006. If the applicant is:
  (a) a person who has left Australia before 1 September 1994 after having
been determined by the Minister, under regulation 2.38 of the Migration
(1993) Regulations, to have contravened a condition of a temporary entry
permit held by the person, whether or not the period of effect of that
entry permit had expired at the time of the determination; or
  (b) a person who:
    (i) has left Australia:
      (A) on or after 1 November 1990; and
      (B) after the expiry of a period of grace that applied to the person
under section 13 of the Act as in force before 1 September 1994, being a
period of grace that expired before 1 September 1994; and
    (ii) is not a person who:
  (a) applied for review by a review officer, the Immigration Review
Tribunal or the Refugee Review Tribunal; and
  (b) left Australia within 7 days of being notified of the decision on the
application for review;
  (c) a person who left Australia as an unlawful non-citizen or as the
holder of a bridging visa class C, D or E granted otherwise than as a
result of compliance action, unless:
    (i) the person left Australia within 28 days after his or her
substantive visa ceased to be in effect or his or her entry permit expired,
as the case requires; or
    (ii) the bridging visa that he or she held at the time of departure was
granted:
      (A) within 28 days after his or her substantive visa ceased to be in
effect or his or her entry permit expired, as the case requires; or
      (B) while he or she held a bridging visa granted in the circumstances
referred to in sub-subparagraph (A); or
      (C) while he or she held a substantive visa;
either:
  (d) the application is made more than 6 months after the departure of the
person from Australia; or
  (e) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraph (d).
  5007. If the applicant is:
  (a) a person who has left Australia before 1 September 1994 after having
been determined by the Minister, under regulation 2.38 of the Migration
(1993) Regulations, to have contravened a condition of a temporary entry
permit held by the person, whether or not the period of effect of that
entry permit had expired at the time of the determination; or
  (b) a person who:
    (i) has left Australia:
      (A) on or after 1 November 1990; and
      (B) after the expiry of a period of grace that applied to the person
under section 13 of the Act as in force before 1 September 1994 being a
period that expired before 1 September 1994; and
    (ii) is not a person who:
  (a) applied for review by a review officer, the Immigration Review
Tribunal or the Refugee Review Tribunal; and
  (b) left Australia within 7 days of being notified of the decision on the
application for review;
  (c) a person who left Australia as an unlawful non-citizen or as the
holder of a bridging visa class C, D or E granted otherwise than as a
result of compliance action, unless:
    (i) the person left Australia within 28 days after his or her
substantive visa ceased to be in effect or his or her entry permit expired,
as the case requires; or
    (ii) the bridging visa that he or she held at the time of departure was
granted:
      (A) within 28 days after his or her substantive visa ceased to be in
effect or his or her entry permit expired, as the case requires; or
      (B) while he or she held a bridging visa granted in the circumstances
referred to in sub-subparagraph (A); or
      (C) while he or she held a substantive visa;
either:
  (d) the application is made more than 12 months after the departure of
the person from Australia; or
  (e) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraph (d).
  5008. If the applicant:
  (a) was a prohibited non-citizen on or before 18 December 1989; and
  (b) was not detained or arrested under the Act on or after 10 December
1990; and
  (c) on or after 10 December 1990, made an unsuccessful application for:
    (i) a December 1989 (temporary) (code number 440) or a December 1989
        (permanent) (code number 812) entry permit under the Migration (1989)
Regulations; or
    (ii) a Class 812 (December 1989 (permanent)) entry permit under the
Migration (1993) Regulations; and
  (d) subsequently left Australia but was not:
    (i) deported before 1 September 1994; or
    (ii) removed under the Act;
either:
  (e) the unsuccessful application was made before 19 December 1991; or
  (f) both:
    (i) the unsuccessful application was made on or after 19 December 1991
but before 19 December 1992; and
    (ii) the present application is made more than 2 years after the
applicant left Australia; or
  (g) both:
    (i) the unsuccessful application was made on or after 19 December 1992
but before 19 December 1993; and
    (ii) the present application is made more than 5 years after the
applicant left Australia; or
  (h) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraphs (e) to (g).
  5009. If the applicant:
  (a) was a prohibited non-citizen on or before 18 December 1989; and
  (b) was detained or arrested under the Act on or after 10 December 1990;
and
  (c) on or after 10 December 1990 made an unsuccessful application for:
    (i) a December 1989 (temporary) (code number 440) or a December 1989
        (permanent) (code number 812) entry permit under the Migration (1989)
Regulations; or
    (ii) a Class 812 (December 1989 (permanent)) entry permit under the
Migration (1993) Regulations; and
  (d) subsequently left Australia but was not:
    (i) deported before 1 September 1994; or
    (ii) removed under the Act;
either:
  (e) both:
    (i) the unsuccessful application was made before 19 December 1991; and
    (ii) the present application is made more than 12 months after the
applicant left Australia; or
  (f) both:
    (i) the unsuccessful application was made on or after 19 December 1991
but before 19 December 1992; and
    (ii) the present application is made more than 2 years after the
applicant left Australia; or
  (g) both:
    (i) the unsuccessful application was made on or after 19 December 1992
but before 19 December 1993; and
    (ii) the present application is made more than 5 years after the
applicant left Australia; or
  (h) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraphs (e) to (g).
  5010. (1) If the applicant is a person who commenced a subsidised course
in Australia after 22 August 1979:
  (a) the application is made more than 2 years after the person's
departure from Australia; or
  (b) the Minister is satisfied that it would not be detrimental to
Australia's policies in respect of overseas students to grant the visa; or
  (c) the Minister is satisfied that, in the particular case, compassionate
or compelling circumstances justify the waiver of the requirements of
paragraphs (a) and (b).
  (2) For the purposes of subclause (1), a subsidised course is a course of
studies lasting more than 12 months undertaken:
  (a) under the Private Subsidised Overseas Student Program; or
  (b) with the approval of the Minister for the time being administering
AIDAB.
            THE TABLE REFERRED TO IN SUBCLAUSES 5004 (2)
                           AND 5005 (2)
Column 1        Column 2     Column 3            Column 4
Item            Visa         Title of visa       Conditions
                subclass     subclass
1               410          Retirement              9101
2               419          Visiting Academic       9103
3               425          Family Relationship     9101
4               432          Expatriate              9101
5               442          Occupational Trainee    9107, 9215
6               560          Student                 9101, 9104, 9105,
                                                     9107, 9109, 9110
                                                     or 9111
7               562          Iranian Postgraduate Student
                                                     9105, 9107, 9109
                                                     or 9110
8               563          Iranian Postgraduate Student (Dependant)
                                                     9104, 9109 or 9111
9               661          Tourist (Special Arrangements)
                                                     9101 or 9106
10              670          Tourist (Short Stay)    9101 or 9016
11              672          Business Visitor (Short Stay)
                                                     9106
12              673          Close Family Visitor (Short Stay)
                                                     9101 or 9106
13              674          Visitor (Other) (Short Stay)
                                                     9101 or 9106
14              675          Medical Treatment (short Stay)
                                                     9101 or 9106
15              680          Tourist                 9101 or 9106
16              682          Business Visitor        9106
17              683          Close family visitor    9101 or 9106
18              684          Visitor (Other)         9101 or 9106
19              685          Medical                 9101 or 9106
20              771          Transit                 9101 or 9106


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 6


                          SCHEDULE 6        Regulations 2.26 and 2.27
          GENERAL POINTS TEST-QUALIFICATIONS AND POINTS
Column 1  Column 2                                             Column 3
Item No.  Prescribed qualification                              Number
                                                              of points
               PART 1-EMPLOYMENT QUALIFICATION
6101      The applicant:                                             80
          (a) applies to enter Australia on the basis of an occupation:
          (i) that is the applicant's usual occupation; and
          (ii) that is a priority occupation; and
          (iii) for which, in Australia, a degree, trade certificate,
diploma, associate diploma or post-trade qualification is required or that
is a professional-equivalent or technical-equivalent occupation; and
          (iv) in respect of which the applicant has a degree, trade
certificate, diploma, associate diploma or post-trade qualification that
meets Australian standards for the occupation, or experience assessed by
the relevant Australian authority to be equivalent to the Australian
standards for the occupation; and
          (b) has in respect of that occupation, qualifications or
experience (or both) required for the purpose of any Australian
occupational licence or registration (or both); and
          (c) has worked in that occupation, or, on any occasion when not
working in the usual occupation, a closely related occupation:
          (i) for not less than 3 years (except for periods of
absence that, in total duration, have not exceeded 12 months) immediately
before making the application; and
          (ii) in the case of a person who has a qualification
referred to in subparagraph (a) (iv)-after acquiring that qualification
6102 The applicant's usual occupation:                                70
          (a) is not a priority occupation; and
          (b) is an occupation:
          (i) for which, in Australia, a degree or trade certificate is
required; or
          (ii) that is a professional-equivalent occupation; and
          (c) is an occupation in respect of which the applicant has:
          (i) a degree, trade certificate or post-trade qualification
that is assessed by the relevant Australian authority as meeting Australian
educational or training standards for that occupation; or
          (ii) experience assessed by the relevant Australian authority to
be equivalent to the Australian standards for that occupation;
          (d) is an occupation in respect of which the applicant has
qualifications or experience (or both) required for the purpose of holding
any Australian occupational licence or registration (or both); and
          (e) is an occupation in which the applicant has worked or (on
any occasion when not working in the usual occupation) that is closely
related to the occupation in which the applicant has worked:
          (i) for not less than 3 years (except for periods of absence
that, in total duration, have not exceeded 12 months) immediately before
making the application; and
          (ii) in the case of an applicant to whom subparagraph (c) (i)
applies, after acquiring the qualification referred to in that
subparagraph
6103 The applicant meets the qualification specified in item 6102 except
that, in respect of paragraph (e) of that item, the applicant has worked,
immediately before making the application, for a period of less than 3
years                                                                60
6104 The applicant's usual occupation:                               55
          (a) is not a priority occupation; and
          (b) is an occupation:
          (i) for which, in Australia, a diploma or associate diploma is
required; or
          (ii) that is a technical-equivalent occupation; and
          (c) is an occupation in respect of which the applicant has:
          (i) a diploma or associate diploma that is assessed by the
relevant Australian authority as meeting Australian educational or training
standards for that occupation; or
          (ii) experience assessed by the relevant Australian authority to
be equivalent to the Australian standards for that occupation; and
          (d) is an occupation in respect of which the applicant has
qualifications or experience (or both) required for the purpose of holding
any Australian occupational licence or registration (or both); and
          (e) is an occupation in respect of which the applicant has
worked or (on any occasion when not working in the usual occupation) that
is closely related to the occupation in which the applicant has worked:
          (i) for not less than 3 years (except for periods of absence
that, in total duration, have not exceeded 12 months) immediately before
making the application; and
          (ii) in the case of an applicant to whom subparagraph (c) (i)
applies, after acquiring the qualification referred to in that
subparagraph
6105 The applicant:                                                  50
          (a) has the attributes referred to in paragraphs 6104 (a), (b),
        (c) and (d); and
          (b) has, immediately before making the application, worked in
the applicant's usual occupation, or a closely related occupation:
          (i) for a period of less than 3 years; and
          (ii) in the case of a person who has a qualification referred to
in subparagraph 6104 (c) (i)-after acquiring that qualification.
6106 The applicant:                                                  30
          (a) applies to enter Australia on the basis of an occupation
which is the applicant's usual occupation, being an occupation:
          (i) for which, in Australia, a degree, diploma, associate
diploma or trade certificate is required; and
          (ii) in respect of which the applicant has a degree, diploma,
associate diploma or trade certificate that qualifies the applicant to
enter that occupation in the foreign country that is the applicant's usual
country of residence; and
          (iii) in respect of which the qualifications of the applicant are
assessed by the relevant Australian authority as requiring upgrading by a
course of training lasting not more than 6 months before being equivalent
to Australian standards for that occupation; and
          (b) has, in relation to such an occupation, the attributes
referred to in paragraph 6101 (c)
6107 The applicant:                                                 25
          (a) applies to enter Australia:
          (i) on the basis of an occupation that is the applicant's usual
occupation, being an occupation entry to which in Australia requires a
certificate or advanced certificate; and
          (ii) as a person who has educational qualifications equivalent
to completion of 4, 5 or 6 years of secondary education in Australia; and
          (iii) as a person who has a certificate or advanced certificate
that meets Australian standards for that occupation, or has work experience
that is assessed by the relevant Australian authority to be equivalent to a
post-secondary qualification of that kind; or
          (b) has an occupation:
          (i) that is the applicant's usual occupation; and
          (ii) entry to which in Australia requires a degree, diploma,
associate diploma or trade certificate; and
          (iii) in respect of which the applicant has a degree, diploma,
associate diploma or trade certificate, or possesses work experience,
assessed by the relevant Australian authority as not equivalent to
Australian Standards for that occupation
6108 The applicant has:                                               20
          (a) an occupation that is the applicant's usual occupation;
and
          (b) has educational qualifications equivalent to 12 years
of primary and secondary education in Australia
6109 The applicant has:                                               10
          (a) an occupation that is the applicant's usual occupation;
and
          (b) educational qualifications equivalent to 10 years of
primary and secondary education in Australia
(NOTE: If the applicant's usual occupation is as a medical practitioner
(including a specialist medical practitioner), 10 points is to be deducted:
see paragraph 2.24 (3) (c).)
                   PART 2-AGE QUALIFICATION
6201 The applicant is aged not less than 18 years and under 30 years at
time of application                                                  30
6202 The applicant is aged not less than 30 years and under 35 years at
time of application                                                  25
6203 The applicant is aged not less than 35 years and under 40 years at
time of application                                                  15
6204 The applicant is aged not less than 40 years and under 45 years at
the time of application                                              10
6205 The applicant is aged not less than 45 years and under 50 years at
the time of application                                              5
               PART 3-LANGUAGE SKILL QUALIFICATION
6301 The applicant provides evidence:                               20
          (a) that he or she holds an award (being a degree, a higher
degree, a diploma or a trade certificate) that required at least 3 years of
full time study or training; and
          (b) that all instruction (including instruction received in
other courses for which the applicant was allowed credit) for that award
was conducted in English
6302 The applicant provides evidence of having passed the Occupational
English Test:                                                       20
          (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
          (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate
6303 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an ACCESS test
score of at least 5 on each of the 4 test components of listening, reading,
writing and oral interaction in a test conducted:           20
          (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
          (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate
6304 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an IELTS test
score of at least 6.0 on each of the 4 test components of speaking,
reading, writing and listening in a test conducted:                  20
          (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
          (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate
6305 The applicant provides evidence:
          (a) that he or she holds an award (being a degree, a higher
degree, a diploma or a trade certificate) that required at least 2 years of
full time study or training; and
          (b) that all instruction (including instruction received in
other courses for which the applicant was allowed credit) for that award
was conducted in English
                                                                     15
6306 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an ACCESS test
score of at least 15 taking into account the 3 best of the applicant's
scores based on the 4 test components of listening, reading, writing and
oral interaction in a test conducted:
           (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
           (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate
                                                                     15
6307 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an IELTS average
band score of at least 6.0 on the 3 best of the applicant's scores based on
the 4 test components of speaking, reading, writing and listening in a test
conducted:
           (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
           (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate
                                                                     15
6308 The applicant provides evidence of having completed all years of
primary education and at least 3 years of secondary education at
educational institutions in which all instruction was conducted in English
                                                                     10
6309 The applicant provides evidence of having completed at least 5
years of secondary education at educational institutions in which all
instruction was conducted in English
                                                                     10
6310 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an ACCESS test
score of at least 15 with a minimum of 3 for each of the 4 test components
of listening, reading, writing and oral interaction in a test conducted:
          (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
          (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate                                               10
6311 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an IELTS average
band score of at least 5.0 based on the 4 test components of speaking,
reading, writing and listening in a test conducted:
          (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
          (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate
                                                                     10
6312 The applicant provides evidence of having completed all years of
primary education and at least 2 years of secondary education at
educational institutions in which all instruction was conducted in English
5
6313 The applicant provides evidence of having completed at least 3
years of secondary education at educational institutions in which all
instruction was conducted in English                                 5
6314 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an ACCESS test
score of at least 12 based on the 4 test components of listening, reading,
writing and oral interaction in a test conducted:
          (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
          (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate                                               5
6315 The applicant provides evidence of having achieved an IELTS average
band score of at least 4.0 based on the 4 test components of speaking,
reading, writing and listening in a test conducted:
          (a) not more than 12 months before lodging the relevant
application to migrate; or
          (b) at the time of the processing of the relevant
application to migrate                                               5
6316 The applicant satisfies the Minister that the applicant is fluent
in 2 languages other than English                                    5
               PART 4-RELATIONSHIP QUALIFICATION
6401 The sponsor is a son or daughter, an adopted son or adopted
daughter or a stepson or stepdaughter of the applicant               15
6402 The sponsor is a brother or sister, an adoptive brother or sister,
a stepbrother or stepsister, a parent, an adoptive parent or a step-parent
of the applicant                                              10
6403 The sponsor is an aunt or uncle, an adoptive aunt or uncle or a
step-aunt or step-uncle of the applicant                             5
               PART 5-CITIZENSHIP QUALIFICATION
6501 The sponsor has been an Australian citizen for not less than 5
years at the time Immigration receives the relevant sponsorship      10
6502 The sponsor has been an Australian citizen for less than 5 years at
the time Immigration receives the relevant sponsorship               5
          PART 6-SETTLEMENT OF SPONSOR QUALIFICATION
6601 The sponsor:                                                    10
          (a) has been resident in Australia (except for short absences
for the purposes of recreation or business) throughout the period of 2
years immediately before Immigration receives the relevant sponsorship;
and
          (b) is not, at the time Immigration receives the relevant
sponsorship, receiving a benefit under the Student Assistance Act 1973 or
any form of Australian social security benefit, allowance or pension, other
than:
          (i) an age pension under the Social Security Act 1947 or the
Social Security Act 1991; or
          (ii) a family allowance, or family allowance supplement, under
either of those Acts; or
          (iii) a pension under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances
Act 1940 or the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986; and
          (c) is either:
          (i) a person who:
          (a) is financially independent, engaged in paid employment or
receiving a pension referred to in subparagraph (b) (i) or (iii); and
          (b) has not received, in respect of a period or periods
amounting to more than 4 weeks during that period of 2 years, one or more
of the following benefits and allowances:
          (i) an unemployment benefit under the Social Security Act
1947;
          (ii) a special benefit under that Act;
          (iii) a jobsearch allowance under the Social Security Act 1991;
          (iv) a newstart allowance under that Act; or
          (ii) a person who:
          (a) is not financially independent, engaged in paid employment
or receiving a pension referred to in subparagraph (b) (i) or (iii); and
          (b) does not have a spouse who has received, in respect of a
period or periods amounting to more than 4 weeks during that period of 2
years, one or more of the following benefits and allowances:
          (i) an unemployment benefit under the Social Security Act
1947;
          (ii) a special benefit under that Act;
          (iii) a jobsearch allowance under the Social Security Act 1991;
          (iv) a newstart allowance under that Act
             PART 7-LOCATION OF SPONSOR QUALIFICATION
6701 Throughout the period of 2 years immediately before Immigration
receives the relevant sponsorship (except for short absences for the
purposes of recreation or business), the sponsor has been resident in one
or more of the areas specified by Gazette Notice as designated areas for
the purpose of this item                                             5


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 7


                           SCHEDULE 7                 Regulation 1.03
        BUSINESS SKILLS POINTS TEST-ATTRIBUTES AND POINTS
Column 1    Column 2                                       Column 3
Item        Attributes                             Number of points
                  PART 1-BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
   Division 1.1-Applicant's main business or main businesses
               (Subclass 127 and 129 visas)
     Subdivision 1.1.1-Annual turnover and employee levels
7101        In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding
the making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together:
            (a) had an annual turnover equivalent to not less than AUD
5,000,000; and
            (b) employed not fewer than:
            (i) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 127 visa-5
full-time employees; and
            (ii) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 129 visa-3
full-time employees                                           60
7102 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together:
            (a) had an annual turnover equivalent to not less than AUD
3,000,000; and
            (b) employed not fewer than:
            (i) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 127 visa-5
full-time employees; and
            (ii) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 129-3
full-time employees                                            55
7103 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together:
            (a) had an annual turnover equivalent to not less than AUD
1,500,000; and
            (b) employed not fewer than:
            (i) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 127 visa-5
full-time employees; and
            (ii) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 129 visa-3
full-time employees                                           50
7104 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together:
            (a) had an annual turnover equivalent to not less than AUD
750,000; and
            (b) employed not fewer than:
            (i) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 127 visa-5
full-time employees; and
            (ii) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 129 visa-3
full-time employees                                           40
7105 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together:
            (a) had an annual turnover equivalent to not less than AUD
500,000; and
            (b) employed not fewer than:
            (i) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 127 visa-5
full-time employees; and
            (ii) in the case of an applicant for a Subclass 129 visa-3
full-time employees
             Subdivision 1.1.2-Labour costs                    35
7121 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together, had labour costs equivalent to not
less than AUD 250,000 but less than AUD 500,000               5
7122 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together, had labour costs equivalent to not
less than AUD 500,000                                         10
              Subdivision 1.1.3-Total assets
7131 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together, had total assets of a value
equivalent to not less than AUD 750,000 but less than AUD 1,500,000
                                                              5
7132 In each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the
making of the application, the applicant's main business, or the
applicant's main businesses together, had total assets of a value
equivalent to not less than AUD 1,500,000                     10
               Division 1.2-Business employing the applicant
                      (Subclass 128 and 130 visas)
7151 The applicant was employed in a major business (within the meaning
of clause 128.111 or 130.111, as the case requires, of Schedule 2) in
each of any 2 of the 4 fiscal years immediately preceding the making of
the application                                               65
       PART 2-AGE OF APPLICANT AT TIME OF APPLICATION
7201 Not less than 30 years but less than 45 years             30
7202 Not less than 45 years but less than 50 years             25
7203 Not less than 25 years but less than 30 years             20
7204 Not less than 50 years but less than 55 years             10
7205 Less than 25 years or 55 years or more                     0
          PART 3-LANGUAGE ABILITY OF APPLICANT
7301 Better than functional ability in English                 30
7302 Functional ability in English                             20
7303 Bilingual in languages other than English                 10
7304 Limited ability in English                                10
7305 No ability in English                                      0
      PART 4-NET ASSETS OF APPLICANT OR OF APPLICANT AND APPLICANT'S
                       SPOUSE TOGETHER
7401 Not less than the equivalent of AUD 2,500,000             15
7402 Not less than the equivalent of AUD 1,500,000 but less than the
equivalent of AUD 2,500,000                                    10
7403 Not less than the equivalent of AUD 500,000 but less than the
equivalent of AUD 1,500,000                                     5
7404 Less than the equivalent of AUD 500,000                    0
                    PART 5-SPONSORSHIP
7501   Sponsorship by the appropriate regional authority       15


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 8


                         SCHEDULE 8         Subregulations 2.05 (1)
                                                            and (2)
                       VISA CONDITIONS
(NOTE: 1. Whether a visa of a particular class may be made subject to any
of these conditions depends on the relevant provision in Schedule 2.
  2. As to cancellation for breaches of conditions, see the Act, ss. 41
and 116 to 119.)
  8101. The holder must not engage in work in Australia.
  8102. The holder must not engage in work in Australia (other than in
relation to the holder's course of study or training).
  8103. The holder must not receive salary in Australia without the
permission in writing of the Secretary.
  8104. The holder must not engage in work for more than 20 hours a week
while the holder is in Australia.
  8105. The holder must not engage in work in Australia (other than in
relation to the holder's course of study or training) for more than 20
hours a week during any week when the institution at which the holder is
studying is in session.
  8106. The holder must engage in work in Australia only if the work is
relevant to the conduct of the business, or performance of the tasks,
specified in the visa application.
  8107. The holder must not change employer or occupation in Australia
without the permission in writing of the Secretary.
  8108. The holder must not be employed in Australia by any 1 employer
for more than 3 months.
  8109. The holder must not change details of times and places of
engagements specified in the application to be undertaken in Australia
during the visa period, without the prior permission in writing of the
Secretary.
  8110. The holder:
  (a) must not engage in work in Australia except in the household of the
employer in relation to whom the visa was granted; and
  (b) except with the permission in writing of the Foreign Minister, must
not remain in Australia after the permanent departure of that employer.
  8111. The holder must not:
  (a) perform work in Australia except in the household of the employer
who is the holder's sponsor in relation to the visa; or
  (b) remain in Australia after the permanent departure of that employer.
  8201. While in Australia the holder must not engage in:
  (a) any course:
  (i) leading to the completion of a primary or secondary education
program; or
  (ii) leading to a degree, diploma, trade certificate or other formal
award; or
  (b) any other course (other than a language training program)
completion of which may be unconditionally credited towards, or accepted
as a prerequisite for, a course of studies at a higher educational
institution within or outside Australia; or
  (c) any studies or training of more than 3 months' duration.
  8202. The holder must satisfy course requirements.
  8203. The holder must not change his or her course of study, or thesis
or research topic, unless approval is given by the Minister after the
Minister has obtained an assessment from the competent Australian
authorities that the holder is not likely to be directly or indirectly a
risk to Australian national security.
  8204. The holder must not undertake or change a course of study or
research, or thesis or research topic, for:
  (a) a graduate certificate, a graduate diploma, a master's degree or a
doctorate; or
  (b) any bridging course required as a prerequisite to a course of study
or research for a master's degree or a doctorate;
unless approval is given by the Minister after the Minister has obtained
an assessment from the competent Australian authorities that the holder
is not likely to be directly or indirectly a risk to Australian national
security.
  8205. If the holder is over 16 and:
  (a) is from a country other than a country that is designated, by
Gazette Notice, as a country in relation to which this condition does not
apply; and
  (b) intends to study in a class-room environment for a period greater
than 4 weeks;
the holder must, before commencing that study, pass a chest X-ray
examination carried out by a medical practitioner who is qualified as a
radiologist.
  8301. After entry to Australia, the holder must satisfy relevant public
interest criteria before the visa ceases.
  8302. After entry to Australia, all relevant members of the family unit
must satisfy the relevant public interest criteria before the visa
ceases.
  8303. The holder must not become involved in activities disruptive to,
or violence threatening harm to, the Australian community or a group
within the Australian community.
  8401. The holder must report:
  (a) at a time or times; and
  (b) at a place;
specified by the Minister for the purpose.
  8402. The holder must report:
  (a) within 5 working days of grant, to an office of Immigration; and
  (b) to that office on the first working day of every week after
reporting under paragraph (a).
  8403. The holder must visit an office of Immigration specified by the
Minister for the purpose, within the time specified by the Minister for
the purpose, to have evidence of the visa placed in the holder's
passport.
  8501. The holder must maintain adequate arrangements for health
insurance while the holder is in Australia.
  8502. The holder of the visa must not enter Australia before the entry
to Australia of a person specified in the visa.
  8503. The holder will not, after entering Australia, be entitled to be
granted a substantive visa, other than a protection visa, while the
holder remains in Australia.
  8504. The holder must enter Australia as the holder of the visa to
which the condition applies before a date specified by the Minister.
  8505. The holder must continue to live at the address specified by the
holder before grant of the visa.
  8506. The holder must notify Immigration at least 2 working days in
advance of any change in the holder's address.
  8507. The holder must, within the period specified by the Minister for
the purpose:
  (a) pay; or
  (b) make an arrangement that is satisfactory to the Minister to pay;
the costs (within the meaning of Division 10 of Part 2 of the Act) of the
holder's detention.
  8508. The holder must make a valid application for a visa of a class
that can be granted in Australia, within the time specified by the
Minister for the purpose.
(NOTE: For the meaning of "valid application" see s. 46 of the Act.
Broadly, a valid application is one that is formally in order for
consideration, not necessarily one that can be granted.)
  8509. Within 5 working days after the date of grant, the holder must:
  (a) make a valid application for a substantive visa; or
  (b) show an officer a ticket for travel to a country other than
Australia that the Minister is satisfied will allow the holder to enter
on his or her arrival.
  8510. Within the time specified by the Minister for the purpose, the
holder must, either:
  (a) show an officer a passport that is in force; or
  (b) make an arrangement satisfactory to the Minister to obtain a
passport.
  8511. Within the time specified by the Minister for the purpose, the
holder must, show an officer a ticket for travel to a country other than
Australia that the Minister is satisfied will allow the holder to enter
on his or her arrival.
  8512. The holder must leave Australia by the date specified by the
Minister for the purpose.
  8513. The holder must notify Immigration of his or her residential
address within 5 working days of grant.
  8514. During the visa period of the visa, there must be no material
change in the circumstances on the basis of which it was granted.
  8515. The holder of the visa must not marry before entering Australia.
  8516. The holder must continue to be a person who would satisfy the
primary or secondary criteria, as the case requires, for the grant of the
visa.
  8517. The holder must maintain adequate arrangements for the education
of any school-age dependant of the holder who is in Australia for more
than 3 months as the holder of a Subclass 560 (as a person who has
satisfied the secondary criteria) or 563 visa.
  8518. Adequate arrangements must be maintained for the education of the
holder while he or she is in Australia.
  8519. The holder must enter into the marriage in relation to which the
visa was granted within 6 months of the date of the holder's initial
entry to Australia as the holder of the visa.
  8520. The relevant person who has satisfied the primary criteria must
enter into the marriage in relation to which the Subclass 300 visa held
by that person was granted within 6 months of the date of that person's
initial entry to Australia as the holder of the visa.
  8521. If the visa is a Subclass 428 (religious worker) visa authorising
a period of stay in Australia of 6 months or less, the holder cannot,
after entering Australia, be granted:
  (a) a substantive visa that would permit the holder to remain in
Australia for a period of more than 6 months from the date on which the
holder entered Australia; or
  (b) a Subclass 805 (skilled occupation) visa.
  8522. The holder must leave Australia not later than the time of
departure of the person:
  (a) who has satisfied the primary criteria; and
  (b) of whose family unit the holder is a member.
  8523. Each person who:
  (a) is a member of the family unit of the holder (being a spouse of the
holder, an unmarried child of the holder who has not turned 18, or a
person intending to marry the holder not later than 3 months after
entering Australia) ; and
  (b) has satisfied the secondary criteria; and
  (c) is, on that account, the holder of a Subclass 560 or 562 visa;
must leave Australia not later than the time of departure of the holder.
  8524. The holder must satisfy the remaining criteria (within the
meaning of Part 303 of Schedule 2) on or before a date specified by the
Minister.
  8525. The holder must leave Australia by a specified means of transport
on a specified day or within a specified period.
  8526. The holder must notify the Secretary in writing, not earlier than
7 days before the day the visa ceases to be in effect, and not later than
that day, of the holder's place of residence in Australia by posting the
notification to the Central Office of Immigration in the Australian
Capital Territory.


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 9


                         SCHEDULE 9              Regulations 3.02, 3.03
                                                               and 3.06
        PART 1-PERSONS TO WHOM SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS APPLY UNDER REGON
                         166 OF THE ACT
Column 1   Column 2          Column 3              Column 4
Item       Class of person   Evidence of identity  Passenger card
                                                    required?
1          Members of the Royal Family
                             Passport               Yes
2          Members of the Royal party
                             Passport               Yes
3          guests of Government
                             Passport               Yes
4          SOFA forces members who arrive at an airport that is not a
           proclaimed port
                             Military identity documents and movement
                             orders                 No
5          SOFA forces members who arrive at an airport that is a
           proclaimed port
                             Military identity documents and movement
                             orders                 Yes
6          SOFA forces civilian component members who arrive at an airport
           that is not a proclaimed port
                             passport and certificate that the person is a
                             member of the civilian component of the armed
                             forces of the relevant country
                                                    No
7          SOFA forces civilian component members who arrive at a
           proclaimed port
                             passport and certificate that the person is a
                             member of the civilian component of the armed
                             forces of the relevant country
                                                    Yes
8          Asia-Pacific forces members arriving at an airport that is not
           a proclaimed port
                             military identity documents and movement
                             orders                 No
9          Asia-Pacific forces members arriving at an airport that is a
           proclaimed port
                             military identity documents and movement
                             orders                 Yes
10         Commonwealth forces members who arrive at an airport that is
           not a proclaimed port
                             military identity documents and movement
                             orders                 No
11         Commonwealth forces members who arrive at an airport that is a
           proclaimed port
                             military identity documents and movement
                             orders                 Yes
12         Foreign armed forces dependants who arrive at an airport that
           is not a proclaimed port
                             passport and either:
                            (a) movement orders; or
                            (b) certificate that the person is a spouse or
                            dependant of a member of the armed forces, or
                            the civilian component of the armed forces of
                            the relevant country, and is accompanying or
                            joining that member      No
13         Foreign armed forces dependants who arrive at an airport that
           is a proclaimed port
                            passport and either:
                            (a) movement orders; or
                            (b) certificate that the person is a spouse or
                            dependant of a member of the armed forces, or
                            the civilian component of the armed forces of
                            the relevant country, and is accompanying or
                            joining that member      Yes
14         Airline crew members
                            Certificate of status from employer in the
                            form of a company identity document
                                                     No
15         Airline positioning crew members
                            passport and a letter from the person's
                            employer certifying that the person is an
                            aircrew member and setting out the purpose of
                            travel and the arrangements for the person to
                            leave Australia          Yes
16         members of the crew of a non-military ship (within the meaning
           subregulation AA1 (2)) that, in the course of a voyage from a
           place outside Australia to a place outside Australia, calls at
           either:
           (a) a proclaimed port; or
           (b) if permission has been given under section 58 of the
           Customs Act 1901 for it to do so, a port other than a
           proclaimed port
                            identity document or passport
                                                      No
17         non-citizen in respect of whom the Minister has made a
           declaration under paragraph 33 (2) (b)
                            passport                  Yes
(NOTE: Paragraph 33 (2) (b) authorises the Minister to declare that
persons, or persons in a particular class, are taken to have been granted
special purpose visas.)
    PART 2-PERSONS NOT REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH REGON 166 OF THE ACT
1.  Transit passengers who do not leave the airport transit lounge except
to continue their journey
2.  Persons visiting Macquarie Island, if permission for the visit has
been granted in writing before the visit by the Secretary to the
Department of Environment and Land Management of the State of Tasmania
3.  Australian citizens who form part of an Australian National Antarctic
Research Expedition from an Australian Antarctic station, and who are
returning to Australia on board a vessel owned or chartered by the
Commonwealth
4.  SOFA forces members who:
  (a)  enter Australia at a seaport; and
  (b)  hold military identity documents and movement orders issued from an
official source of the relevant country; and
  (c)  are travelling to Australia in the course of their duty
5.  Asia-Pacific forces members who:
  (a)  enter Australia at a seaport; and
  (b)  hold military identity documents and movement orders issued from an
official source of the relevant country; and
  (c)  are travelling to Australia in the course of their duty
6.  Commonwealth forces members who:
  (a)  enter Australia at a seaport; and
  (b)  hold military identity documents and movement orders issued from an
official source of the relevant country; and
  (c)  are travelling to Australia in the course of their duty
7.  Foreign naval forces members, if permission to enter the migration
zone for the vessel of which they form part of the complement was given in
advance by the Australian Government
      PART 3-COUNTRIES WHOSE CITIZENS, WHEN TRANSIT PASSENGERS, ARE NOT
             REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH REGON 166 OF THE ACT
Austria
Belgium
Brunei
Canada
Denmark
Federated States of Micronesia
Fiji
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Indonesia
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Kiribati
Liechtenstein
Luxembourg
Malaysia
Malta
Nauru
Netherlands
Norway
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Portugal
Republic of South Africa
Republic of the Marshall Islands
Singapore
Solomon Islands
South Korea
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Thailand
Tonga
Tuvalu
United Kingdom (including its colonies)
United States of America
Vanuatu
Western Samoa
Zimbabwe


1994 No. 268 MIGRATION REGULATIONS - SCHEDULE 10


                          SCHEDULE 10             Regulation 1.03
                            FORM 1          Subregulation 5.32 (1)
                  COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
                      Migration Act 1958
                   SEARCH WARRANT-VALUABLES
To (insert name of officer and capacity by virtue of which he or she is
an officer within the meaning of the Act).
I, (name) the Secretary (or a delegate of the Secretary) of the
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, authorise you, (insert
name of officer), under subsection 223 (14) of the Migration Act 1958
(the Act), at any time of the day or night, with such assistance, and
using such reasonable force, as you think necessary:
  (a) to enter and search any building, premises, vehicle, vessel or
place in which you have reasonable cause to believe there may be found
any valuables to which a notice in force under section 223 of the Act
relates; and
  (b) to seize any such valuables found in the course of such a search;
and for the purposes of the exercise of the foregoing powers, to stop
any vehicle.
And for doing so this shall be your sufficient warrant.
This warrant remains in force for the period commencing on
19
and ending on                                          19       .
Dated                                       19.
                                             Secretary (or Delegate)
                               FORM 2          Subregulation 5.32 (2)
                      COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
                         Migration Act 1958
                           SEARCH WARRANT
To (insert name of officer and capacity by virtue of which he or she is
an officer within the meaning of the Act).
I, (name) the Secretary (or a delegate of the Secretary) of the
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, authorise you, under
subsection 251 (4) of the Migration Act 1958 (the Act), at any time of
the day or night, with such assistance as you think necessary, to enter
and search any building, premises, vehicle, vessel or place in which you
have reasonable cause to believe there may be found:
  (a) an unlawful non-citizen, a removee or a deportee, within the
meaning of the Act;
  (b) a person to whom a temporary visa under the Act has been issued
subject to a condition with respect to the work to be performed by that
person;
  (c) any document, book or paper relating to the entry or proposed
entry into Australia of a person in circumstances in which that person:
    (i) would have become a prohibited immigrant within the meaning of
the Act as in force from the time to time before the commencement of the
Migration Amendment Act 1983; or
    (ii) would have become a prohibited non-citizen within the meaning
of the Act as in force from time to time after the commencement of the
Migration Amendment Act 1983 but before the commencement of section 4 of
the Migration Legislation Amendment Act 1989; or
    (iii) would have become an illegal entrant within the
meaning of the Act as in force from time to time after the commencement
of section 4 of the Migration Legislation Amendment Act 1989 but before
commencement of section 7 of the Migration Reform Act 1992; or
    (iv) would have become, or would become, an unlawful non-citizen; or
  (d) any passport or document of identity of, or any ticket for the
conveyance from a place within Australia to a place outside Australia
of, an unlawful non-citizen, a removee or a deportee, within the meaning
of the Act;
and to seize any such document, book, paper, passport, document of
identity or ticket, as the case may be, and to impound and detain it for
such time as you think necessary, and for the purposes of the exercise
of the foregoing powers to stop any vessel or vehicle and to use such
reasonable force as is necessary.
And for doing so this shall be your sufficient warrant.
This warrant remains in force for the period commencing on
19           and ending on                   19             .
Dated                   19
...................................................
                                                Secretary (or Delegate)
                           FORM 3                       Regulation 5.33
                   COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
                     Migration Act 1958
  DOCUMENT ISSUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANNEX 9 OF THE ICAO CONVENTION ON
                  INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION
This document is issued by the Australian Government under subsection
274 (3) of the Migration Act 1958 of the Commonwealth of Australia.
TO: Immigration or appropriate
authority:............................................................
  Airport:................................
Country:..............................................................
                                                            Attach
                                                          photograph
                                                        (if available)
The person to whom this document is issued is claiming the following
identity:
Surname:
Given Name(s):
Date of Birth:                                    Place of Birth:
Nationality:
Residence:..........................................................
This person arrived in Australia on..............................
at.................................... Airport on flight
number................................
from.....................................................  Airport.
The person named in this document:
*is being removed from Australia/*is being deported from Australia/*was
refused immigration clearance after entering Australia
and the incoming carrier has been instructed to remove *him/*her from
the territory of Australia on flight number.............................
departing at.................................hours
on...................................................................from
..............................................Airport.
At the time of entry to Australia this person was:
* (1) Not in possession of any *travel/*identification documentation.
* (2) In possession of the *photocopied/*attached documentation.
  A brief description of the offending documentation follows -
  * fraudulent/*falsified/*counterfeit
  * passport/*identity card/*other document
Number:.............................................
   Country in whose name documentation was
issued:..............................................
* (3) In possession of documentation that has been
impounded for return to the appropriate authorities of the issuing
country.
* (4) In possession of valid
*travel/*identification documentation that since expired and cannot be
renewed.
According to Annex 9 of the ICAO Convention on International Civil
Aviation, the last Country in which a passenger previously stayed and
most recently travelled from, is invited to accept *him/*her for
re-examination when *he/*she has been refused admission to another
country.
I,................................................................, a
delegate of the Secretary of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic
Affairs, issue this document under subsection 274 (3) of the Migration
Act 1958.
Signature and Official Title:
Date:.......................................
Airport:................................................................
Country: Australia
Telephone:....................... Telex:..............................
Facsimile:.................................
  *delete as appropriate
        WARNING-THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT AN IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENT


- NOTES


1994 No. 268*1* MIGRATION REGULATIONS

- Dated 21 July 1994


*1* Notified in the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette on 28 July 1994.


